=============================================
##Quiz | first | quiz
=============================================


##
Quiz 1: Terms and process groups Questions
---------------------------------------------
Question 1:
    The team is working with the executive management of the company to implement a few new projects and programs to increase revenue 
    by over 50% within the next 3 years. What is the team trying to develop?  

    Long-term program
    Multi-project program
    Portfolio
    Long-term project

    Ans:Portfolio
        A portfolio is a collection of projects and programs implemented to achieve a strategic (long-term) business goal. 
        All the other choices are made up.


Question 2:
    As the project team is collecting the new project’s requirements, the organization’s legal department has 
    informed them of a new law that could affect the project. 
    The team determines that it is mandatory to implement this new law in the project. What is this called? 

    Regulation
    Standard
    Baseline
    System

    Ans:Regulation
        A regulation is an official guideline that must be followed by the project, usually imposed by local or national law.
        
        A standard is a guideline that should be followed, but is not mandatory. 
        A baseline is used to measure the performance of the project, such as cost, schedule, and scope. 
        A system is a set of processes and procedures that a company will implement to manage something, 
        such as accounting procedures to invoice customers.


Question 3:
    Peter is working on a project that he knows little about. He was assigned by the project management office (PMO) 
    and they have almost complete control over the project. What type of PMO best describes this scenario?

    Controlling
    Directive
    Supportive
    Guiding

    Ans: Directive
        In a directive PMO, the office takes control of the project by managing the projects and assigning the project manager. 
        Controlling PMOs control the way the project is done by providing templates and frameworks. 
        Supportive PMOs have a low degree of control on the project. 
        “Guiding” is not a type of PMO.

Note:
    Projct Management Office:
        Organizational Structure that standardizes the processes and facilitates the sharing of resources, 
        methodologies, tools, and techniques.
    Types:
        • Directive: Controls the project. Project manager will be assigned and report to the PMO.
        • Controlling: Determines the framework or methodology and use of specific forms.
        • Supportive: Supports the project manager, such as providing templates, training, or lessons learned form other projects.
          General the PMO we see in big Org not small company with 10/15 people.




Question 4:
    Mary’s new project staff are some of the best talents in the company. 
    The team members will use their own methodologies and prefer to be in control of the project; 
    they would only like to be provided templates and lessons learned  from other projects. 
    What type of PMO would be best for this project? 

    Controlling
    Directive
    Supportive
    Managing

    Ans:Supportive
        Since the team will be mostly in control and just needs templates, the best fit would be “supportive.” 
        In a directive PMO, the office takes control of the project by managing projects and assigning the project manager. 
        Controlling PMOs control the way the project is done by providing methodologies or frameworks. “Managing” is not a type of PMO.



Question 5:
    Pat is working in an organization where she does project management full time. 
    However, she still needs to consult with functional managers in order to acquire her project team. 
    What organizational structure type best describes this situation?  

    Functional
    Weak matrix
    Project-oriented
    Strong matrix

    Ans:Strong matrix
        In a strong matrix, the project manager is full time and has a moderate to high control over resources. 
        In a weak or functional matrix, project management is part-time. 
        In a project-oriented organization, the project manager has high to complete control over resources.

Note:
    Organizational Structures:
        Organizational structures define how roles, responsibilities, and authority are distributed within a company. 
        In project management, there are three main types:

        Functional Structure: Organized by departments (e.g., finance, marketing), where each department is 
        managed independently. The project manager has limited authority, and resources report to functional managers.

        Projectized Structure: The organization is structured around projects, with project managers having 
        full authority over resources. Teams are often dedicated to one project.

        Matrix Structure: A hybrid of functional and projectized structures. Resources report to both functional and project managers. 
        There are three types:
            Strong Matrix:      Project manager has more authority.
            Weak Matrix:        Functional manager has more authority. project management is part-time and resource controlled by 
                                the functional manager.
            Balanced Matrix:    Authority is shared between the functional and project manager.




Question 6:
    Irek has been working on an office remodel project for close to 6 months. 
    He feels like the project is going poorly due to a lack of resources from the functional managers and his lack of time to work 
    on the project. Irek spends most of his day doing operational work. What organizational structure best describes this?   

    Strong matrix
    Project-oriented
    PMO
    Weak matrix


    Ans:Weak matrix
        In a weak matrix, project management is part-time and resource availability is controlled by the functional manager. 
        All other choices require a full-time project manager.



Question 7:
    ABX Shipping is a large global company with many departments, some of which are have part-time project management and others, 
    such as research and development, where it is full time. 
    Where the project managers work determines their control over resources. 
    What organizational structure best describes this organization?   

    Mixed
    Multinational
    Project-oriented
    Hybrid

    Ans:hybrid
        In a hybrid, the company uses multiple types of structures, such as functional and project-oriented. 
        Answers A and B are not organizational types. 
        Project-oriented requires project managers to be full time and have control over resources.



Question 8:
    Mark has just started a new job as a project coordinator for a company. He will be working with a group to develop their new website. 
    Mark finds working on this project to be difficult due to always needing the company owner’s approval for budget matters. 
    He also has very few resources to work with because the company is very small. 
    What organizational structure best describes this scenario?   

    Organic
    Owner functional
    Shareholder functional
    Weak matrix

    Ans:Organic
        In an organic or simple structure, the owner controls the budget, and there are few to no resources. 
        Answers B and C are not organizational structure types. 
        A weak matrix would have a functional manager to control the budget.



Question 9:
    Mark has just started working for a company that has little to no project management framework or functions. 
    He notices that most people manage projects on their own with no oversight or established processes. 
    Mark has spoken the CEO and they have decided to change this. What is this organization lacking?   

Governance
Certified project managers
Functional management
Strong functional management

    Ans:Governance
        Project governance refers to the framework, functions, and processes that guide a company to create a project.
        The other choices are made up.



Question 10:
    Project management and operations management are sometimes managed by the same set of people. 
    What is one of the key differences between project and operations management?  

    Operations management is temporary and project management is ongoing.
    Project management is temporary and operations management is ongoing.
    Project management is done only by a certified project manager.
    None: operations and project managements are the same.

    Ans:Project management is temporary and operations management is ongoing.
        Project management is a temporary endeavor, while operations management is ongoing and never stops. 
        A project manager does not necessarily need to be certified.



Question 11:
    Mark has gotten a new job at a company that is about to create a new product. 
    This new product will be a very complex software that may take years to create and have many different groups of people.
    Mark has decided to break up this complex project into smaller subprojects and manage them individually. What is Mark managing? 

    Portfolio
    Project
    Program
    Operations

    Ans:Program
        A program is a group of related projects that are managed in coordination to obtain the benefits of not managing them individually. 
        A portfolio is a collection of projects, programs, and other portfolios. 
        A project is a single temporary endeavor to create a unique product, service, or other result.



Question 12:
    Many organizations have different strategic goals. Which of the following helps an organization attain these goals?

    Project
    Program
    Operation
    Portfolio

    Ans:Portfolio
        A portfolio achieves the organization’s strategic objectives. While projects and programs may help complete a portfolio, 
        they may not always achieve strategic objectives in themselves. 
        “Operations” generally maintain an organization’s current processes.



Question 13:
    Mary has just completed one of the most important deliverables of the project. 
    She meets with the organization’s senior management, and they have not determined if the project should continue or not, 
    as the current deliverable may be all they need. What would best describe this review?   

    Phase gate
    Kickoff meeting
    Project review meeting
    Project closure review

    Ans:Phase Gate
        A phase gate is done at the end of a phase, deciding whether to continue to the next phase or not. 
        A kickoff meeting is generally done at the end of planning and sometimes at the end of the project’s initiated sections 
        in order to start the next section. Answers C and D do not exist.


Question 14:
    What best describes an area of project management where the project manager will work with the project team in order to 
    complete the project work?   

        Initiating
        Planning
        Executing
        Closing

    Ans:“Executing”
        “Executing” is the process group where the project manager acquires both the physical and human resources 
        to complete the project work. 
        The main output of execution is the project deliverables (work). 

        “Initiating” is used to authorize the project, and “planning” is used to determine 
        the course of action needed to build the deliverables. 
        “Closing” is used to review the project and transition the deliverables to the customer or sponsor.



Question 15:
    Project manager Bill has started planning his project and will gather all requirements from his customers, 
    then build the project deliverable in its entirety. Bill will generally not get any input from the customer 
    while the product is being made, and the customer will only review it at the end. What life cycle best describes Bill’s project?  

    Predictive
    Incremental
    Iterative
    Adaptive

    Ans:Predictive
        A predictive life cycle is when the project scope is known early in the project. 
        For Bill to create the deliverable in its entirety without any feedback from the customer, 
        he will have gathered the scope in its entirety before executing the project. 

        All other choices are adaptive and used in projects when the deliverable is built in increments, with continuous customer feedback.



Question 16:
    Mary has just been awarded a new product development project. After speaking with some of the customers, 
    it seems that they do not know how they would like the product to look and feel. 
    They would like to be more involved in the product development and give Mary continuous feedback. 
    What project life cycle would best fit this project?   

    Predictive
    Waterfall
    Incremental
    Non-predictive

    Ans:Incremental
       In an incremental life cycle, the deliverable is built in a series of iterations with continuous feedback from project stakeholders.
       “Predictive” or “waterfall” are the same thing, and are only used when the scope is known early in the project. 
       “Non-predictive” does not exist.



Question 17:
    One phase of the project has been completed, and the stakeholders are very happy with the transition of the project deliverable. 
    What would be the next best step on this project?

        Kickoff meeting
        Start a new phase
        Archive project records
        Conduct a phase review

    Ans: Conduct a Phase gate or Phase review
        When a project is completed, the project stakeholders should conduct a phase gate or phase review to 
        determine whether to continue the project or end it. 
        You should not start a phase if you have not reviewed the previously finished phase. 
        Archive project records would have been done in the phase that was just completed. 
        A kickoff meeting is used at the end of planning or when initiating a section of the project in order to start the next section.







Quiz 2: Integration Quiz
---------------------------------------------
Question 1:
A project manager is about to start planning a new sales software development project and will 
work with the project team to create a project management plan. 
What will the project manager and the team not use in planning a project?  

    Work performance information
    Scope statement
    Scope baseline
    Risk register

Ans:Work performance information
    Work performance information is an output of monitoring and controlling and is not used during planning. 
    The scope statement, scope baseline, and risk register are all created during the planning processes.



Question 2:
The project manager has received a change request from the project sponsor to reduce the budget by 20%. 
After the project manager has reviewed the change, he decides that the only way this can 
be done is by removing a part of the project that is not yet completed. Who should approve this change?   

    Project team
    Change approval board
    Change management board
    Change Control Board

Ans:Change control board
    The change control board (CCB) is a group that helps the project manager to assess and deny or approve changes. 

    The project team may only help assess the change. “Change approval” and “management board” are made up.



Question 3:
The CEO of a small business has requested that the company’s accounting software be upgraded to better support their financial records. 
He has requested that the software include a report that can forecast the following month’s expenses. 
Where would be the best place the CEO can outline why this project needs to get done? 

    Business documentsl
    Scope outline
    Scope statement
    WBS

Ans: Business documents
    The business documents contain two parts: the business case and the benefits management plan. 
    In this question, the business case would be used to explain why the project would need to get done. 

    The “scope outline” is a made-up term. The scope statement and WBS shows the work needed to finish the project.



Question 4:
Project manager Mike worked with the sponsor, Chris, to get the project charter approved for the new office reorganizing project. 
While reviewing the requirements, both Mike and Chris are sure that there is no need to upgrade the office’s current wireless network. 
Where is the best place for Mike and Chis to store this information?  

    Project charter
    Business case
    Assumption documentation
    Assumption log

Ans:Assumption log.
    Mike and Chris are making an assumption, as they are sure of their determination but don’t know it for a fact; 
    An assumption log is used to track all assumptions made throughout the project. 

    A project charter and business case have nothing to do with assumptions. “Assumption documentation” is a made-up term.




Question 5:
While working on creating a project management plan, the project manager has brought a group of expert programmers 
and a planner to ensure it is created correctly. What tool best describes this approach?   

    Meeting
    Interpersonal and team skills
    Data analysis
    Data gathering

Ans: Data gathering
    The tool that is being used is a focus group, which is part of data gathering. “Meeting” and “interpersonal 
    and team skills” do not involve a focus group. Data analysis is used to analyze data that has already been gathered.



Question 6:
When a project has been executed, what input would best help the project manager determine how to manage changes to the project?  

    Change Control Plan
    Project management plan
    Change control board
    Change control charts

Ans: Project management plan
    The project management plan contains the Change management plan. 
    The change management plan will outline how changes are requested, assessed, approved, or disapproved. 

    The change control board approves or disapproves changes. The term change control chart is a made-up term.



Question 7:
Company XYZ has been executing a new business development project for the last 4 months. 
A few stakeholders have requested changes to the scope and have gotten them approved. 
When a change is approved, what is the next best step to conduct on a project?   

    Execute the approved change request in the process of direct and manage project work
    Execute the approved change request in the process of monitor and control project work
    Validate the change in the validate scope process
    Close the change request in the close project or phase process

Ans:Execute the approved change request in the process of direct and manage project work

    Once a change request has been approved in the perform integrated change control process, the project 
    manager will then execute the change in the direct and manage project work process. 

    Approved change request is not an input into the processes of monitor and control project work, 
    validate scope, and close project or phase.



        
Question 8:
A change control board has informed the project manager that a change request made by stakeholder 
Mark to reduce the project schedule by 2 weeks was rejected. What is the first step the project manager should take?  

Resubmit the change request
Ask Mark to change his request to 1 week
Consult the project team to see how to get this change approved
Update the change log

Ans:Update the change log
    Once a change has been approved or rejected the project manager should update the change log to reflect the status of the change. 
    Asking Mark to reduce his change request by 1 week would need a new change request. 
    The change was already rejected, there is no need to get the team involved. 
    Resubmitting the change request, without any new changes would result in the same outcome.



Question 9:
The deliverable for the product improvement project has been accepted by the sponsor. 
What should the project manager do next? 

Move onto the next phase or project
Release the project team
Move to the close project or phase process
Determine what went wrong and right on this project

Ans: Move close project or phase process
    Once a deliverable has been accepted, the project manager should then conduct the close project or phase process. 
    In that process the project manager will discuss the lessons learned and release or reassign the project team. 
    A project manager should never leave a project without formally closing it.



Question 10:
Project team member Josh has learned a new method to program the financial application by reading a book about functions in applications. 
What kind of knowledge is this?   

Explicit
Tacit
Common
Programming

Ans: Explicit
    Explicit knowledge is gained from words, pictures, and numbers, such as reading books. 

    “Tacit” is generally from beliefs, insights, and experiences. 
    “Common” and “programming” are not types of knowledge.



Question 11:
While executing a project, the project manager has learned that an IT vendor will delay the delivery 
of the server needed to implement the phone system. This problem will need to be resolved soon. What should the PM do first?   

Update the project management plan
Update the issue log
Update the sponsor
Find a new vendor

Ans:Update the issue log
    The first step in managing any issues on a project is to add it to the issue log. From there, the PM can get a change 
    request to either change the vendor or add more time to the project. 
    Once a change request has been approved, then the PM can update the project management plan.


Question 12:
The project team is currently working on the office move project, and they have completed moving one of the floors to the other building. 
While the work is progressing, what document would be best for the project manager to update?   

Work performance data
Issue logs
Change logs
Work logs

Ans:Work performance data
    The work performance data will describe what is happening to the deliverable as it is being done. 

    The issue log is only updated when there are issues on the project. 
    Change logs are only updated once a change request is filed. “Work logs” is a made-up term.



Question 13:
The project sponsor has been asking the project manager to close the project as soon as possible, 
since the deliverable has been created. The project manager has informed the sponsor that the project cannot close yet. 
What best explains why the project manager cannot close the project?   

There are defects in the deliverable
The project is over budget
The project team has not been released
The deliverable has not been accepted

Ans: The deliverable has not been accepted
    In order for the project or phase to be closed, the deliverable has to be accepted. 
    An accepted deliverable is a key input to the process of close project or phase. 

    You will release the project team during the close project or phase. 
    If the deliverable was defective, then it would not be considered done.



Question 14:
A company has plans to improve one their products. They have started to work with Mary to get this 
project authorized by the board of directors. What is the output of this process?   

Project management plan
Project charter
Stakeholder register
Business documents

Ans:Project charter
    The project charter is used to authorize a project. 

    The project management plan and stakeholder register come after the charter is created. 
    The business documents are an input to create project charters.



Question 15:
When creating a project management plan what component will address how to approve changes on a project?  

Change approval management plan
Change management plan
Change control board plan
Change Plans

Ans:Change management plan
    The change management plan is a part of the project management plan that describes how to manage changes on a project. 
    That includes getting them requested, assessed, approved, or rejected. The other choices are made up.



Question 16:
A project team has just completed a major module in a new application. 
They were able to complete it in about half the time that was approved for them using a new method from a recent programmers’ publication. 
What should the project manager do first with this new programming method?   

Update the project management plan
Update the sponsor about the work
Close the project or phase
Update the lessons learned register

Ans:Update the lessons learned register
    Once new knowledge has been acquired, the project manager should update the lesson learned register. 
    This will ensure that the knowledge is saved and can be used throughout the project, as well as on future projects. 

    Updating the plan or sponsor will not update the lesson learned register or document the method. 
    You cannot close a project or phase if it had not been completed and accepted.




Question 17:
While executing a large project for building a bridge, the PM has received a request that would affect the structure 
of the bridge and may need it to be completely redesigned. The change came from the local transportation department. 
What should the PM do next?   


Ans:first reviewing and assessing your information.
    The first step would be to assess the changes and understand how it would affect the project, which may lead to 
    stopping the work and redesigning the bridge. 
    You should never stop work on a project without first understanding the impact of a change on a project. 
    Never take action without first reviewing and assessing your information.



Question 18:
A phase of a long software development project has been completed. 
The phase was considered very successful: the team was able to complete the deliverables in about half the time and under budget. 
The deliverables were successfully transferred to the next phase of the project. 
What should the project manager do next for this phase?  

Create the final report
Initiate the next phase of the project
Update the project management plan
Start working on the project management plan for the next phase

Ans: Create the final Report
    The final report is an output of the close project or phase process that will document what happened on the project. 

    While you can initiate or plan another phase on a project, the question does state “for this phase.” 
    “Update project management plan” is not an output of close project or phase.



Question 19:
While monitoring and controlling the project, the project manager notices that the project has been 
behind schedule for 2 out of the 3 weeks. The PM thinks it will also be behind schedule this week. 
What kind of data analysis is this?  

Variance analysis
Trend analysis
Prediction analysis
Expert judgment

Ans:Trend analysis
    Trend analysis is used to analyze when a trend might be forming and where it’s going. 

    Variance analysis is only used to find a variance, not to predict it. 
    “Prediction analysis” is made up, and expert judgement is  not part of data analysis.







Quiz 3: Scope Management Quiz
==========================================

Question 1:
When creating a scope baseline, the project manager, Joe, has decided to include where the work is supposed to take place. 
Where in the WBS will this information be stored? 

In each work package on the WBS
In each deliverable on the scope statement
In each work package on the WBS dictionary
On the activity list

Ans: In each work package on the WBS dictionary
    The WBS dictionary has all details about each work package, such as who is doing it, where it’s getting done, and its cost.



Question 2:
The project manager has met with the company PMO to ask for guidance about creating a scope statement for the project. 
The PMO had given him all the steps he should follow when creating a scope statement. 
What document would the project manager best store these steps in?

Scope statement
WBS dictionary
Scope Management Plan
Scope baseline

Ans:Scope Management Plan
    The scope management plan will outline all the steps the project manager will follow to conduct the scope processes, 
    including defining the scope and creating the WBS.



Question 3:
The project manager has met a few of the team members, and they have decided to document how the software they're working on will function. 
They record a feature where users will be able to email reports from the software with one click. 
What document best describes what they are creating?

Product Scope
Project Scope
Scope Statement
Scope baseline

Ans:Product Scope
    The product scope will outline the product’s features and functionality.




Question 4:
The project manager, Peter, is collecting requirements for the project. 
He is not sure of the best step to take in order to correctly collect them from the company’s senior management. 
What document should Peter refer to?   

Scope Baseline
Requirements Management Plan
Scope Management Plan
Requirements Documentation

Ans:Requirements management plan
    The requirements management plan will outline all the steps the project manager will take to collect, 
    measure, test, and verify requirements.




Question 5:
The project manager, Peter, has met the sponsor, Mary, and has informed her that the project has been delayed due the 
requirements not being documented correctly. 
What process was not done correctly during planning?

Plan scope management
Collect requirements
Define scope
Create WBS

Ans:Collect requirements
    Collect requirements is a process where the requirements are gathered from all stakeholders on the project.

Note:
    Plan Scope Management: Defines how the project scope will be managed.
    Collect Requirements: Gathers stakeholder needs for the project.
    Define Scope: Develops a detailed description of the project work.
    Create WBS: Breaks down project deliverables into manageable tasks.



Question 6:
The project team has given the customers access to the new software they created in order to get feedback and 
see if there is room for improvement. What tool best describes this?   

Expert Judgement
PMIS
Software Testing
Prototype

Ans:Prototype
    A prototype is used as a tool in the process of collect requirements. 
    It is a working product that is given to users in order to collect feedback and gather their requirements.



Question 7:
The project has conducted a brainstorming session and generated a lot of ideas for their new financial software. 
The project manager notices that the ideas seem to be in no particular order and would like them to be grouped together. 
What tool or technique would best help the team?   

Prototypes
Expert Judgment
Story maps
Affinity diagrams

Ans:Affinity diagram 
    An affinity diagram is used to group and review ideas.

Note:
    Prototypes: Early models or samples to visualize and test product ideas.
    Expert Judgment: Using knowledge from subject matter experts to make decisions.
    Story Maps: Visual tool to map out user stories in a logical sequence.
    Affinity Diagrams: Organizes ideas and data into groups based on their natural relationships.



Question 8:
The project manager has spoken with the customers about what quality requirements there are looking for on the office renovation project. 
They have specifically said they want to use good quality materials with high durability. 
Where would be best for the project manager to store this request?   

Quality Documentations
Requirements Documentations
Scope statement
Requirements management plan

Ans:Requirements documentation
    The quality requirements are stored in the requirements documentation, which is an output of collect requirements.

Note:
    Quality Documentations: Records that outline quality standards, metrics, and control processes for a project.
    Requirements Documentations: Lists stakeholder needs and conditions to be met for the project.
    Scope Statement: Describes the project’s deliverables, boundaries, and acceptance criteria.
    Requirements Management Plan: Details how requirements will be analyzed, documented, and managed.




Question 9:
The company has started to work on a new accounting software that would allow the company to better manage their expenses. 
After they have created the scope statement, they then start to learn more about each deliverable and the efforts needed to produce them. 
What process best describes this?  

Create WBS
Develop WBS
Create scope baseline
Define scope

Ans:Create WBS
    “Create WBS” is generally done after the scope statement is created and decomposes the deliverables into work packages.



Question 10:
The project team has completed the deliverables for the project and has checked them to ensure all quality requirements have been met. 
They have informed the sponsor to review the deliverable with them in order to gain a sign-off on its completion. 
What tool would be best used in this process?   

Product review
Scope review
Data analysis
Inspection

Ans:Inspection
    Inspection is the tool used in the process of validate scope by the stakeholders to formally accept the verified deliverables.

Note:
    Product Review: Evaluation of a product’s performance or quality against expectations.
    Scope Review: Assessment to ensure the project’s scope aligns with the objectives.
    Data Analysis: Techniques used to assess and interpret project data for decision-making.
    Inspection: Examination of work or products to verify that they meet requirements.




Question 11:
The project manager has noticed that a member of the project team has been doing work that was not in the WBS. 
When asked why he was doing so, the team member says the sponsor requested the work and he felt he needed it to be done. 
What process most accurately describes this scenario?   

Validate Scope
Control Scope
Perform integrated change control
Control quality

Ans:Control Scope
    The control scope process is where the project manager compares the planned work to the actual work to ensure there is no variance. 
    If there is a variance a change request might be needed to correct it.

Note:
    Validate Scope: Ensures that completed deliverables meet the acceptance criteria and are approved by the client or sponsor.
    Control Scope: Monitors the project scope to prevent scope creep and manage changes.
    Perform Integrated Change Control: Reviews and manages changes across the entire project.
    Control Quality: Ensures project deliverables meet quality standards through testing and inspections.




Question 12:
The team is getting ready to break down the deliverables on the scope statement. 
They are not sure how to conduct this process. What document would best help them?   

Scope management plan
Requirements management plan
WBS management plan
Decomposition

Ans:Scope management plan
    The scope management plan will outline the steps the project will take to conduct all scope processes, 
    including the “create WBS” processes.

Note:
    Scope Management Plan: Defines how the project scope will be defined, validated, and controlled.
    Requirements Management Plan: Outlines how project requirements will be collected, analyzed, documented, and managed.
    WBS Management Plan: Specifies how the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) will be created and maintained.
    Decomposition: The process of breaking down project deliverables into smaller, manageable tasks.





Question 13:
The customers of a new office renovation project are not too sure what the project will and will not do. 
The planning for the project has been completed and it’s now about to be executed. Where can the customers 
look to see what work the project will not be doing?   

WBS
WBS dictionary
Scope management plan
Scope statement

Ans:scope statement
    The scope statement lists exclusions, or work the project will not be doing.

Note:
    WBS (Work Breakdown Structure): A hierarchical breakdown of the total scope of work into smaller, manageable components.
    WBS Dictionary: A detailed document describing each WBS component, including deliverables, activities, and milestones.
    Scope Management Plan: Outlines how scope will be defined, validated, and controlled.
    Scope Statement: A document that provides a detailed description of the project scope, 
                     including deliverables, constraints, and exclusions.





Question 14:
Mark was assigned a new project to install a new phone system. 
He feels he can learn more about the customer’s requirements if he watches them use their current analog system. 
What tool or technique best describes his approach?     

Interpersonal and team skills
Data analysis
User monitoring
User acceptance monitoring

Ans:Interpersonal and team skills
    Job shadowing is an example of the observation/conversation part of interpersonal and team skills.

Note:
    Interpersonal and Team Skills: Soft skills like communication, conflict resolution, and leadership used to manage teams effectively.
    Data Analysis: Techniques to assess and interpret data for informed decision-making.
    User Monitoring: Tracking user interaction and feedback to ensure project requirements are met.
    User Acceptance Monitoring: Ensuring that deliverables meet user expectations and are formally accepted.



Question 15:
A project team has completed a new smartphone for a major phone manufacturer. 
During testing they compared their boot time to a few other smartphones made by other companies and realized their phone is 
very slow by comparison. 
What could the project team have used to ensure this was addressed during planning?

Industry testing
Benchmarking
User acceptance testing
Prototypes

Ans:Benchmarking
    Benchmarking is used on projects to compare its performance or specifications to other projects or industry standards.



Question 16:
While working on a project, the team has encountered many change requests from the customers and sponsor. 
The project manager has informed the team that the requirements were not collected in detail from the start of the project. 
What would be the first action the PM and team could take?   

Stop the project and ask the PMO for guidance
Deny all customers and sponsors request
Schedule a meeting to collect all the requirements from the customers and sponsor
Analyze what was done during planning to understand why the requirements were not collected properly


Ans:Analyze what was done during planning to understand why the requirements were not collected properly
    The first action the team should take is to identify what was done during the planning processes to gain a better 
    understanding of what went wrong. 
    Then they can redo the process of collect requirements if needed and update the project management plan with the correct requirements.



Question 17:
The project team has completed the new security alarm system for the building and has informed the project manager. 
The project manager inspected it and verified that it works according to all building and safety regulations. 
What would be the next process the project manager should conduct?   

Control Scope
Validate Scope
Close Project or Phase
Control Quality

Ans:Validate scope 
    Since the work has been completed and the project manager has checked the deliverable to ensure it meets the quality 
    requirements, the next process would be to get the sponsors or customers to give a formal acceptance in the validate scope 
    process before closing the project or phase.



Question 18:
During a major construction project of a large building the project manager realizes that the scope didn’t 
include a new safety regulation. If the building is completed and doesn’t include the regulation the building will 
not be approved for occupancy. What should the project manager do next?  


Ans:analyze how the regulation will affect the project
    The first action the project manager should take is to analyze how the regulation will affect the project. 
    From there, the project manager might have to get a change request to modify the project management plan to incorporate the regulation.




Question 19:
The project manager is having a difficult time collecting requirements from the stakeholders. 
They never seem to have time to meet with the project manager. What should the project manager do in this situation?

Write the requirements himself
Continue to work with the stakeholders to collect the requirements
Create the scope statement from the requirements that have already been collected
Stop the project until they have time to give the requirements

Ans:Continue to work with the stakeholders to collect the requirements
    The best solution here would be to work with the stakeholders to collect the requirements in detail. 
    
    This can include scheduling meetings ahead of time. The project manager should not write the requirements or 
    write a scope statement with just a few of the project requirements. The project has been approved and should not be stopped.





Question 20:
The project manager, Mary, has completed the scope statement and the WBS for a small project. 
She has approached the sponsor about gaining approval for the scope baseline. Upon inspection, the sponsor decided the scope 
baseline doesn’t have enough information in it. What is the best action Mary can take?

Work with the team and create a WBS dictionary
Go back to the collect requirements processes to ensure all requirements were added to the scope baseline
Ask the sponsor to write the scope
Work with the team to create a project schedule and cost baseline

Ans:Work with the team and create a WBS dictionary
    The scope is missing one component, the WBS dictionary. Mary should create it and add it to the scope statement and WBS. 
    
    The scope baseline is made up of 3 components, the scope statement, WBS, and WBS dictionary.







Quiz 4: Schedule Management Quiz
==============================================
Question 1:
While getting ready to manage the project schedule, the project manager would like to document how accurate the 
schedule must be and what model the team will use to create the schedule. What document would have this information?   

Scope Management Plan
Schedule Management Plan
Schedule Baseline
Schedule Data

Ans:Schedule Management Plan
    The schedule management plan will describe how the schedule will be planned, developed, managed, executed, and 
    controlled throughout the project, as well as the level of accuracy, reporting formats, and schedule model.


Question 2:
In developing the schedule management plan, which of the following tools will the project manager use?  

Data Representation
Data Analysis
Decision Making
Project Management Information System

Ans:Data Analysis
    Data analysis is a tool that is used in plan schedule management to create the schedule management plan. 
    The other choices are not tools in this process.



Question 3:
The project manager has met with the project team to define the activities on the project. 
Which of the following components of the project management plan will the team not use to define the activities?   

WBS
WBS dictionary
Scope Statement
Activity Lists

Ans: Activity list
    The WBS, WBS dictionary, and scope statement are part of the scope baseline, which is an input to the process of define activities. 
    The activity list is the output of the process, not an input.



Question 4:
While conducting the process of define activities, a few of the team members have decided to use the lesson learned 
repository from previous projects. Which of the following inputs describes this lesson learned repository?   

Project management plan
Project Documents
Enterprise Environmental Factors
Organization Process Assets

Ans:Organization Process Assets
    The organizational process assets include but are not limited to the lesson learned repository from previous projects and templates. 
    The other choices do not include the lesson learned repository.

Note:
    A lesson learned repository is a centralized database or collection of lessons learned from past projects. 
    It serves as a knowledge base for an organization, allowing project teams to access and learn from the experiences of others.



Question 5:
The activity lists and WBS are used to help create the scope baseline and the schedule baseline. Which of the following statements 
is true regarding these two documents?

The WBS is not part of the project management plan while the activity list is
Activity lists are part of the schedule baseline, and the WBS is part of the scope baseline
The activity lists and WBS are part of the schedule baseline
The activity lists and the WBS can be developed either sequentially or concurrently

Ans:The activity list, WBS, and WBS dictionary can be developed either sequentially or concurrently
    The WBS is part of the scope baseline, while the activity list is not part of the schedule baseline, 
    only considered a project document.



Question 6:
The project team has embarked on a very complex software development project and is currently having a difficult time decomposing 
work packages that will be done later; they have decided to decompose these work packages as they get closer to the work. 
What technique best represents the scenario?  

Decomposition
Future Planning
Rolling Wave Planning
Meetings

Ans:Rolling Wave Planning 
    Rolling wave planning is a planning technique in which future work is decomposed as the work gets closer. 
    Decomposition is done to break down the deliverables and work packages into activities. 
    Future planning is not a valid tool or technique.


Note:
    Decomposition:
        Definition: Breaking down a project into smaller, more manageable components or tasks.
        Purpose: To improve clarity, assign responsibilities, and track progress more effectively.
        Example: A large software development project might be decomposed into modules like user interface, database, and backend logic.

    Future Planning:
        Definition: The process of anticipating future events, trends, and challenges that may impact a project.
        Purpose: To prepare for potential risks and opportunities, and to make informed decisions.
        Example: A construction project might consider future weather conditions, changes in material costs, or regulatory updates.

    Rolling Wave Planning:
        Definition: A dynamic planning approach where initial phases are planned in detail, 
                    while subsequent phases are planned at a higher level.
        Purpose: To adapt to changing circumstances and uncertainty, especially in projects with long timelines.
        Example: A product development project might initially plan the first release in detail, while planning subsequent 
        releases at a more conceptual level.

    Meetings:
        Definition: Regularly scheduled gatherings of project stakeholders to discuss progress, address issues, and make decisions.
        Purpose: To foster communication, collaboration, and alignment among team members.
        Example: Daily stand-up meetings, weekly status meetings, and monthly review meetings are common in project management.




Question 7:
While decomposing project activities which of the following statements is true regarding the usage of this technique?   

It is only done once on a project
Involving the team members can lead to better and more accurate results
It is a tool used in sequence activities
It is used to create the Project scope statement

Ans:Involving the team members can lead to better and more accurate results
    Decomposition is best done when the team members are involved, since they are considered subject matter experts and will generally 
    lead to more accurate results. It should be done throughout the project as more work is done and understood. 
    It is not a tool used in sequence activity or defined scope processes.



Question 8:
The project sponsor is examining the project schedule and has noticed a few activities with a duration of zero. 
What best describes these activities?   

Milestone
Normal Activity
Informational Activity
Backward Activity

Ans:Milestone
    Milestones have zero duration because they represent a significant point or event on the project. 
    All other choices are made-up terms.


Note:
    Milestone
        Definition: A significant event or achievement within a project that marks a key point in its progress.
        Characteristics: Typically has a zero duration, is used to measure progress, and is often associated with specific deliverables.
        Example: Completing a feasibility study, launching a product, or achieving a specific sales target.

    Normal Activity
        Definition: A typical task or work item that contributes to the project's objectives.
        Characteristics: Has a defined duration and requires resources to complete.
        Example: Writing code, conducting testing, or preparing documentation.

    Informational Activity
        Definition: An activity that doesn't directly produce a deliverable but provides information or updates to stakeholders.
        Characteristics: Often has a short duration and is used to keep stakeholders informed about project progress.
        Example: Sending project status reports, holding team meetings, or conducting surveys.

    Backward Activity
        Definition: An activity that must be completed before a specific predecessor activity can begin.
        Characteristics: Used in backward pass scheduling to determine the latest start and finish times for activities.
        Example: Completing quality assurance testing before releasing a product.




Question 9:
While working on a large building development project the team has identified a particular warehouse they would use to fabricate 
the steel beams. Where would the team store this information?   

Activity Lists
Activity Attributes
Milestone List
Project Schedule Network Diagram

Ans:Activity attributes 
    The activity attributes can be used to identify the place where the work is to be performed. 
    The activity list is just a list of all activities on the project. The milestone list will identify all milestones on the project. 
    The project schedule network diagram will not show the location of work, just the sequence thereof.



Question 10:
Which of the following methods is used to construct a schedule in which activities are represented by nodes and are graphically linked? 

Precedence diagramming method
Critical path method
Scheduling method
Diagram method

Ans:Precedence diagramming method
    The precedence diagramming method is used to construct a schedule in which the activities are represented graphically 
    using nodes and are linked based on their relationship. 
    The critical path method is used to find the critical path for a network diagram. 
    “Scheduling method” and “diagramming method” are made-up terms.

Note:
    Precedence Diagramming Method (PDM)
        Definition: A graphical technique used to depict the sequence of activities in a project.
        Elements: Nodes (activities) and arrows (dependencies) represent the relationships between activities.
        Purpose: To visualize the project's workflow, identify dependencies, and create a project schedule.

    Critical Path Method (CPM)
        Definition: A technique used to identify the longest sequence of activities (critical path) that determines the 
        project's overall duration.
        Purpose: To determine the earliest and latest start and finish times for activities, identify critical activities, 
        and assess the project's schedule.
        Relationship with PDM: CPM often uses PDM as a basis for its calculations.

    Scheduling Method
        Definition: A general term encompassing various techniques used to create a project schedule, such as PDM, CPM, 
        and PERT (Program Evaluation and Review Technique).
        Purpose: To plan the sequence of activities, allocate resources, and estimate project duration.

    Diagram Method
        Definition: A broader term that can refer to any graphical representation used in project management, 
        including PDM, network diagrams, Gantt charts, and others.
        Purpose: To visualize project information, communicate plans, and track progress.




Question 11:
While working on a large systems upgrade project, the project team has decided that they can install the servers and the 
workstations at the same time. 
The activities will all start at the same time but the workstation installations will take a bit longer to finish. 
What relationship best describes this scenario?   

Finish to Start
Finish to finish
Start to Start
Start to late finish

Ans:Start to Start
    The relationship of “start to start” is when a successor activity cannot start until the predecessor activity has started. 
    This means that they both generally started the same time, but they may not finish at the same time.


Note:
    1. Finish-to-Start (FS):
    Relationship: The predecessor activity must finish before the successor activity can start.
    Example: Building the foundation of a house must be completed before constructing the walls.

    2. Finish-to-Finish (FF):
    Relationship: The predecessor activity must finish before the successor activity can finish.
    Example: Painting a room must be completed before the furniture can be moved in.

    3. Start-to-Start (SS):
    Relationship: The predecessor activity must start before the successor activity can start.
    Example: Two teams must start working simultaneously on different parts of a project.

    4. Start-to-Late Finish (SLF):
    Relationship: The predecessor activity must start before the successor activity can finish by a specified duration.
    Example: The design phase of a product must start before the manufacturing phase can finish by a certain deadline.




Question 12:
While working on a network installation project the project team has determined that they must finish the router configurations 
  before they can set up the workstations. The workstations cannot be set up until the router configurations are done. 
  What kind of dependency does this best describes?   

Discretionary Dependency
Mandatory Dependency
External Dependency
Physical Dependency

Ans:Mandatory Dependency
    Mandatory dependencies are dependencies in which one activity must be done in order for another activity to start. 

    Discretionary dependencies are when the sequence of activities does not necessarily have to be done in that particular order, 
    but is usually at the discretion of the person doing the work. “Physical dependency” is a made-up term.

Note:
    Discretionary Dependency
        Definition: A logical relationship between activities that is based on a decision or preference rather than a technical requirement.
        Characteristics: Can be changed or removed if necessary without affecting the project's objectives.
        Example: Choosing to conduct training before implementing a new system.

    Mandatory Dependency
        Definition: A logical relationship between activities that is dictated by the nature of the work or external factors.
        Characteristics: Cannot be changed or removed without impacting the project's objectives.
        Example: Completing design work before starting construction.

    External Dependency
        Definition: A logical relationship between activities that involves an external entity or factor outside the project's control.
        Characteristics: Can be influenced but not directly controlled by the project team.
        Example: Waiting for regulatory approval before starting a new product launch.

    Physical Dependency
        Definition: A logical relationship between activities that is based on the physical characteristics of the work.
        Characteristics: Cannot be changed or removed without modifying the work itself.
        Example: Installing a new software application before configuring it.






Question 13:
The project team has filed for a permit in order to continue building the foundation for a large office building. 
The permit usually takes about 6 weeks to arrive, and the team is worried it may take even longer. 
What kind of dependency best describes this scenario?   

Internal Dependency
External Dependency
Discretionary Dependency
Permit Dependency

Ans:External Dependency
    External dependency is when the work is outside of the project team’s control, such as getting a permit. 
    Internal dependency is usually within the projec    t team’s control. “Permit dependency” is a made-up term.

Note:
    There are two main types of dependencies :
    1. Mandatory Dependencies: These are imposed by external factors such as contracts, technological requirements, or physical limitations. 
    They cannot be changed or modified without affecting the project's scope, schedule, or resources. 

    There are four types of mandatory dependencies:
        Finish-to-Start (FS)
        Finish-to-Finish (FF)
        Start-to-Start (SS)
        Start-to-Late Finish (SLF)


    2. Discretionary Dependencies: These are based on project management decisions or team preferences. 
    They can be changed or modified without affecting the project's scope, schedule, or resources. 
    Examples of discretionary dependencies include:
    Logical relationships between tasks (e.g., designing a product before manufacturing it)
    Organizational policies or procedures
    Team member preferences

    In addition to these two main types, there is also a third type of dependency called External Dependencies: 
    These are relationships between project activities and external factors that are not under the project team's control, 
    such as weather conditions or regulatory approvals.




Question 14:
The builders have completed the foundation for the large office building. 
Upon completion, they have filed a permit, and are told by the permit office that they will have to wait about 3 weeks for inspection. 
How should these 3 weeks be represented in the project schedule?   

As a lag
As a lead
As a delay
As an overlap


Ans:As a lag
    A lag is a delay between activities. Although “delay” is a somewhat correct answer, 
    using the term “lag” is more appropriate for a PMP exam. 
    A lead is an overlap of work on a project.

Note:
    Lag
        Definition: A delay between the completion of one activity and the start of another.
        Purpose: To introduce a waiting period or buffer between activities.
        Example: A waiting period of two days between completing design and starting construction.

    Lead
        Definition: An overlap between the end of one activity and the start of another.
        Purpose: To allow activities to start earlier than they would if they were performed sequentially.
        Example: Starting construction activities partially before completing the design phase.

    Delay
        Definition: A deviation from the planned schedule, resulting in an activity starting or finishing later than planned.
        Purpose: To indicate a disruption or setback in the project's timeline.
        Example: A delay in receiving materials due to supply chain issues.

    Overlap
        Definition: A situation where two or more activities are performed simultaneously.
        Purpose: To optimize resource utilization or accelerate project completion.
        Example: Overlapping coding and testing activities to reduce project duration.



Question 15:
While installing the servers and workstations on a project, the team has decided that they do not have to wait for 
all the servers to be installed before they start installing the workstations. They have decided to install 
just a few of the main servers, and then they can start installing the workstations. 
What best describes what they’re doing on the schedule?   

Lead
Lag
Delay
Overlap

Ans:Lead
    A lead is an overlap between activities, in which one activity can start before the other activity is done. 
    Although “overlap” would be a good choice, the term “lead” is a better answer for a PMP question. 
    A lag is a delay between activities.




Question 16:
While estimating the duration of activities on the project, the project team has decided to base most of their estimates on 
historical data from a project they completed a few months ago that is very similar to the current project. 
This would allow them to complete the estimate fairly quickly. 
What technique best illustrates this scenario?  

Parametric estimating
Expert judgment
Analogous estimating
Bottom-up estimating

Ans:Analogous estimating
    Analogous estimating is based on historical information, generally from previous projects that were very similar. 
    This technique would lead to a quick estimate, but may not be very accurate. 
    Expert judgment is using subject matter experts in order to estimate the duration, and bottom-up estimation 
    is done by aggregating the work in order to come up with the duration. 
    Parametric estimating is usually a mathematical model based on historical information.

Note:
    Parametric Estimating
        Definition: A technique that uses historical data and statistical relationships to estimate project costs based on known parameters.
        Characteristics: Requires a reliable database of past projects and a clear understanding of the relationship between project variables (e.g., size, complexity, duration) and costs.
        Example: Estimating software development costs based on the number of lines of code.

    Expert Judgment
        Definition: A technique that relies on the knowledge and experience of experts to estimate project costs.
        Characteristics: Can be useful for unique or complex projects where historical data is limited.
        Example: Consulting with industry experts to estimate the cost of a new technology implementation.

    Analogous Estimating
        Definition: A technique that uses the cost of a similar past project as a reference point to estimate the cost of the current project.
        Characteristics: Requires a comparable project with similar scope, complexity, and conditions.
        Example: Estimating the cost of a new building project based on the cost of a similar building completed in the past.

    Bottom-Up Estimating
        Definition: A technique that involves breaking down a project into its smallest components and estimating 
                    the cost of each component individually.
        Characteristics: Provides a detailed and accurate cost estimate but can be time-consuming.
        Example: Estimating the cost of a software development project by estimating the cost of each module, feature, and task.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Estimating techniques are used to predict the project's budget and allocate resources effectively.
    Parametric, expert judgment, analogous, and bottom-up estimating are common techniques used in project management.
    The choice of estimating technique depends on the nature of the project, the availability of data, and the desired level of accuracy.
    Combining multiple techniques can often provide more accurate and reliable cost estimates.





Question 17:
While working on a complex software development project, the project team has added an additional month to the project 
schedule due to the uncertainty of the work getting done. What type of reserve does this represent? 

Management reserves
Contingency reserves
Risk reserves
Expert judgment reserves

Ans:Contingency reserve
    “Contingency reserve” is associated with a known-unknown and is usually added to the project management plan. 
    A management reserve is generally for an unknown-unknown and not added to the project management plan. 
    “Risk” and “expert judgment reserves” are made-up terms.

Note:
    Contingency Reserves: Funds set aside to address identified risks (known-unknowns) in a project. 
    Managed by the project manager and included in the cost baseline.

    Management Reserves: Funds allocated for unforeseen risks (unknown-unknowns) that are not identified in the project. 
    Managed by upper management and not included in the cost baseline.




Question 18:
The project team has completed all duration estimates for the activities on the project and has indicated that their 
estimates should be within a -10 to +10% range. Where should the project team store this range? 

Schedule baseline
Schedule management plan
Basis of estimates
Activity lists

Ans:Basis of estimates 
    The basis of estimates would generally indicate the range of possible estimates. 

    The schedule baseline and schedule management plan will not indicate the possible range of the estimates, 
    while the activity list is simply a list of activities that will take place on the project.




Question 19:
The project manager is constructing the project schedule and would like to know the minimum duration needed to complete the project. 
What method can he used to determine the minimum duration?   

Duration methods
Scheduling method
Critical path method
Precedence diagramming method

Ans:Critical path method
    The critical path method is used to estimate the minimum project duration and determine the amount of schedule flexibility. 

    The precedence diagramming method is used to construct the project schedule network diagram showing the dependencies between activities. 
    The “scheduling” and “duration” methods are made-up terms.



Question 20:
The project sponsor has indicated to the project manager that he is not happy with the current project schedule. 
He would like the project to be completed at least 3 months earlier than its scheduled completion date. 
What technique can the project manager use to compress the schedule while minimizing cost?   

Crashing
Fast Tracking
Reserves
Dependencies

Ans:Fast Tracking
    “Fast tracking” the schedule is a compression technique in which activities are generally done in parallel. 
    This technique generally increases the risk on the project but may not increase costs. 
    “Crashing” is adding more resources to the project to finish it faster, and will increase costs.

Note:
    Two primary schedule compression technique:
                                                Crashing
                                                Fast Tracking 




Question 21:
Due to the complex nature of a construction project, the project manager has decided that the project is best done outside normal 
working hours, generally overnight. 
Where should the project manager document this information?   

Schedule Baseline
Schedule Management Plan
Project Time Shift
Project Calendar

Ans:Project calendar 
    A project calendar identifies the working days and shifts that the project will follow.



Question 22:
While working on an agile project, what can the project manager do in order to track the work that remains to be completed on the project? 

Earned Value Analysis
Expert Judgment
Trend Analysis
Iteration Burndown Chart


Ans:Iteration Burndown Chart
    An iteration burndown chart shows the work that remains to be completed in the iteration backlog. 

    “Earned value analysis” is a series of form     unlas that assess project performance and progress. 
    Expert judgment is about using subject matter experts, and trend analysis is to see whether the project is staying on or off schedule.









Quiz 5: Cost Management Quiz
==============================================
Question 1:
When developing the cost management plan, what tool or technique includes reviewing the different funding options 
that can be used to fund the project?   

Meetings
Data Analysis
Expert Judgment
External Funding

Ans:Data analysis
    Data analysis includes alternative analysis, which includes reviewing strategic funding options. 

    Meetings and expert judgment do not examine different funding options. External funding is not a valid tool.



Question 2:
While working on a multinational project, the project manager has decided to represent the project budget in American dollars, 
even though the project will span nine different countries. 
This will make the budget uniform and easier for the stakeholders to understand. 
Where will the project manager document the units of measurement for the budget?  

Cost management plan
Funding management plan
Units of measurement plan
Currency format plan

Ans:Cost management plan
    The cost management plan can establish the units of measurement which would include the currency format. 
    All other choices are fake plans.




Question 3:
Early in the project’s planning phase, the project team determined that the cost to install a server would be $15,000. 
This is a high-level estimate, and the team thinks it may cost up to $10,000 more. What kind of estimate is this? 

Definitive estimate
Rough order of magnitude estimate
Wide estimate
Plan estimate

Ans:Rough order of magnitude estimate
    A rough order of magnitude estimate has a range of -25% to +75%. 
    A definitive estimate is generally within the range of -5% to +10%. 
    Wide and plan estimates are not actual types of estimates.

Note:
    Estimation Type:
        
    1. Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Estimate:
        Purpose: Provides a broad, high-level estimate early in the project when limited information is available.
        Accuracy: Typically ranges from -25% to +75%.
        Use: Used during project initiation or for feasibility studies.

    2. Preliminary Estimate:
        Purpose: A more refined estimate compared to ROM, but still based on limited details.
        Accuracy: Ranges from -15% to +50%.
        Use: Used in the early planning stages when more information is available.

    3. Definitive Estimate:
        Purpose: A highly accurate estimate based on detailed project scope, design, and specifications.
        Accuracy: Ranges from -5% to +10%.
        Use: Typically used during project execution when detailed information is available.

    4. Budget Estimate:
        Purpose: Provides an estimate that can be used for budget planning and is more detailed than ROM.
        Accuracy: Ranges from -10% to +25%.
        Use: Used during the planning phase to establish a project budget.

    5. Bottom-Up Estimate:
        Purpose: Developed by estimating the cost or duration of individual work packages and then rolling them up to get the total estimate.
        Accuracy: Very accurate, typically ranging from -5% to +10%.
        Use: Used when detailed information is available, often during later project phases.

    6. Analogous Estimate:
        Purpose: Based on the cost or duration of similar previous projects.
        Accuracy: Less accurate, typically used for quick estimates when limited details are available.
        Use: Used in early project phases, leveraging historical data.

    7. Parametric Estimate:
        Purpose: Uses mathematical models to estimate costs or durations based on project parameters (e.g., cost per unit).
        Accuracy: Varies depending on the complexity and reliability of the model.
        Use: Can be used at different stages, often when historical data or statistics are available.





Question 4:
Cost estimates for activities generally include the cost for labor, materials, equipment, services, and facilities. 
Which of the following statements is false regarding cost estimates?   

Cost estimates are progressively elaborated(ক্রমান্বয়ে বিস্তারিত)
Cost estimates are best done by the project team
Cost estimates also include the operational cost of the product
Cost estimates also include the contingency costs

Ans:Cost estimates also include the operational cost of the product
    Cost estimates for project activities should not include the operational costs of the product, 
    since those costs cover operations and not a project. 
    All other choices are true.



Question 5:
While working on a game design project, the project sponsor has asked the project manager to ensure that his estimates are 
very precise(সুনির্দিষ্ট). 
What estimating technique should the project manager use?   

Analogous estimating
Bottom-up estimating
Three-point estimating
Accuracy estimating

Ans:
    Bottom-up estimating is when work packages are broken down and then rolled back up to form an overall cost estimate. 
    This can lead to a very precise estimate, although it requires the most amount of work. 

    Analogous estimating is a quick estimate that is based on previous projects. 
    Three-point estimating uses the PERT formula and may or may not be accurate . Accuracy estimating is a made-up term.

Note:
    Analogous Estimating
        Definition: A technique that uses the duration of a similar past project as a reference point to estimate the \
        duration of the current project.
        Characteristics: Requires a comparable project with similar scope, complexity, and conditions.
        Example: Estimating the duration of a new software development project based on the duration of a similar project 
        completed in the past.

    Bottom-Up Estimating
        Definition: A technique that involves breaking down a project into its smallest components and estimating the duration of each 
        component individually.
        Characteristics: Provides a detailed and accurate duration estimate but can be time-consuming.
        Example: Estimating the duration of a construction project by estimating the duration of each task, such as excavation, 
        foundation work, and finishing.

    Three-Point Estimating
        Definition: A technique that uses three estimates (optimistic, most likely, and pessimistic) to calculate a 
        weighted average duration.
        Characteristics: Provides a more accurate estimate than a single-point estimate and accounts for uncertainty.
        Example: Estimating the duration of a task by providing an optimistic estimate of 5 days, a most likely estimate of 8 days, 
        and a pessimistic estimate of 12 days.

    Accuracy Estimating
        Definition: The process of assessing the reliability and precision of a duration estimate.
        Characteristics: Involves considering factors such as the quality of data, the experience of the estimators, 
        and the level of uncertainty.
        Example: Evaluating the accuracy of a duration estimate by comparing it to historical data or conducting sensitivity analysis.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Estimating techniques are used to predict the project's duration and create a realistic schedule.
    Analogous, bottom-up, and three-point estimating are common techniques used in project management.
    The choice of estimating technique depends on the nature of the project, the availability of data, and the desired level of accuracy.
    Accuracy estimating is essential for ensuring that the project schedule is realistic and achievable.




Question 6:
The project manager and the project team determined that the budget for the project will be $60,000. 
That includes the cost for all the activities and all uncertainties that may have taken place during the project. 
The project cost baseline is $60,000. 
The sponsor has determined that if there is a need for additional funds, he will add an additional $5,000. 
The additional $5,000 represents what?  

Contingency Reserves
Risk Reserves
Management Reserves
Sponsor Reserves


Ans:Management Reserves
    Management reserves are added to the cost baseline in case the project exceeds its budget. 
    It is usually added by the company’s management and is not under the manager’s control. 

    Contingency reserves are part of the cost baseline. Risk and sponsor reserves are made-up terms.



Question 7:
The project manager has worked with an expert project team to estimate the project’s cost. 
The project manager is very confident that the project will end at that budget. 
Where should the project manager document his or her confidence level of the cost estimate?   

Cost baseline
Cost management plan
Risk register
Basis of estimates

Ans:Basis of estimates
    The basis of the estimates will have an indication of the confidence level of the final estimate. 

    No other choice will document the confidence level of an estimate.




Question 8:
When determining the budget for a project, what tool should the project manager use to sum the cost of each work package to 
form the entire project budget? 

Data analysis
Decision making
Cost aggregation
WBS aggregation

Ans:Cost aggregation
    Cost aggregation is when you take the work packages and aggregate their individual cost to find the entire project budget. 
    Data analysis does not contain any cost segregation, and neither does decision making. WBS aggregation is a made-up term.



Question 9:
The project manager has just been told by the project sponsor that, due to a current recession in the stock market, 
the company will not be able to allocate all of the funds that the project will need for completion. 
What should the project manager do with this funding limit? 

Implement change requests
Reschedule the project work
Close the project
Seek external funding

Ans:Reschedule the project work
    In the process of determining budget, the funding limit reconciliation tool is handled by rescheduling work. 
    Implementing a change request may not help, since the organization will not have the money; 
    closing the project will not resolve the funding problems; and seeking external funding may not be an option.



Question 10:
The project manager has completed the process of determining budget. He has created the cost baseline, 
which will be added to the project management plan. The project manager is also aware of the project budget. 
What is the difference between the project budget and cost baseline?     

The cost baseline includes the contingency and management reserves
The cost baseline only includes the management reserves
The cost baseline includes the contingency reserves and the project budget includes the management reserves
The cost baseline includes the management reserves and the project budget includes the contingency reserves

Ans:The cost baseline includes the contingency reserves and the project budget includes the management reserves
    The cost baseline includes the cost of all activities, plus the contingency reserves, and the management 
    reserves includes the cost baseline, 
    plus the management reserves.




Question 11:
In the process of control costs, the project manager compares the project management plan with what other information?  

Work performance data
Project funding requirements
Project documents
Work performance reports

Ans:Work performance data
    In almost all monitoring and controlling processes, the project manager compares the project plan with the work 
    performance data to determine 
    if the project is on track.

Note:
    Work Performance Data
        Definition: Raw data collected during project execution that is used to monitor progress and measure performance 
        against the project plan.
        Examples: Actual costs incurred, hours worked, defects discovered, and deliverables completed.

    Project Funding Requirements
        Definition: The financial resources needed to support the project's activities and deliverables.
        Includes: Budgets, forecasts, and funding requests.

    Project Documents
        Definition: Formal or informal written materials that describe the project's scope, objectives, plans, and deliverables.
        Examples: Project charter, project management plan, risk management plan, and change management plan.

    Work Performance Reports
        Definition: Documents that summarize the project's progress, performance, and status.
        Includes: Status reports, progress reports, and variance reports.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Work performance data is collected throughout the project and used to create work performance reports.
    Project funding requirements are based on the project's scope and work breakdown structure (WBS).
    Project documents provide the framework for the project and guide decision-making.
    Work performance reports are used to monitor progress, identify issues, and make necessary adjustments to the project plan.






Question 12:
The project manager is currently evaluating how well the project is meeting the project budget. 
What earned value formula will be needed to determine if a project is on or over budget? 

PV
AC
SV
SPI

Ans:AC
    To determine if a project is on or over budget, you will need to calculate the CV or CPI, both of which use the AC value.


Note:
    Key earned value metrics used in PMP include:

    1. Planned Value (PV):
    Definition: The authorized budget assigned to scheduled work. 
    It represents the value of work that should have been completed by a specific date.
    Formula: PV = Budgeted Cost of Work Scheduled (BCWS)

    2. Earned Value (EV):
    Definition: The value of work actually performed by a specific date, measured against the project baseline. 
    It tells how much of the project budget has been "earned" by actual work completed.
    Formula: EV = Budgeted Cost of Work Performed (BCWP)

    3. Actual Cost (AC):
    Definition: The total cost incurred for the work completed by a specific date. 
    It is the actual money spent on the project to achieve the earned value.
    Formula: AC = Actual Cost of Work Performed (ACWP)


Performance Indicators:
    Cost Variance (CV):
        Definition: The difference between earned value (EV) and actual cost (AC), showing whether the project is under or over budget.
        Formula: CV = EV - AC
        Interpretation:
        CV > 0: Under budget
         CV < 0: Over budget

    Schedule Variance (SV):
        Definition: The difference between earned value (EV) and planned value (PV), showing whether the project is ahead or behind schedule.
        Formula: SV = EV - PV
        Interpretation:
        SV > 0: Ahead of schedule
        SV < 0: Behind schedule

    Cost Performance Index (CPI):
        Definition: A ratio that measures cost efficiency by comparing earned value to actual cost.
        Formula: CPI = EV / AC
        Interpretation:
        CPI > 1: Under budget (cost-efficient)
        CPI < 1: Over budget (cost-inefficient)

    Schedule Performance Index (SPI):
        Definition: A ratio that measures schedule efficiency by comparing earned value to planned value.
        Formula: SPI = EV / PV
        Interpretation:
        SPI > 1: Ahead of schedule
        SPI < 1: Behind schedule
        Forecasting Techniques

    Estimate at Completion (EAC):
        Definition: The forecasted total cost of the project based on current performance.
        Formula: EAC = BAC / CPI (simplest formula)
        Interpretation: Projects the final cost based on current trends.

    Estimate to Complete (ETC):
        Definition: The expected cost needed to finish all remaining work.
        Formula: ETC = EAC - AC
        Interpretation: Helps in planning future project expenditure.

    To-Complete Performance Index (TCPI):
        Definition: A measure of the cost performance required to meet a specified management goal (either BAC or EAC).
        Formula:
        TCPI (BAC) = (BAC - EV) / (BAC - AC)
        TCPI (EAC) = (BAC - EV) / (EAC - AC)
        Interpretation: TCPI > 1 indicates the need for improved cost performance to meet the target.


`

Question 13:
The budget manager has completed the earned value analysis for the project. 
He has concluded that the CPI of the project is .9. Which of the following statements best describes this project? 

Over budget by 10%
Over budget by 90%
On the budget by 100%
Under budget by 90%

Ans:Over budget by 10%
    The cost performance index (CPI) is a measurement of the cost efficiency of the budgeted resources. 
    The number being one represents the project being on budget. A number below one illustrates the project being over budget. 
    At .9, the project is 10% over budget.




Question 14:
The project manager has calculated the EV of the project to be $14,000 and the PV to be $16,000. 
The BAC is currently at $22,000. Which statement best describes this project?   

The project is ahead of schedule
The project is on budget
The project is over budget
The project is behind schedule

Ans:Project is behind schedule
    If you are to calculate this project’s SV, you would have gotten a negative number. 
    To calculate the SV, subtract PV from EV, which is $14,000-$16,000 = -$2,000. 
    This project is behind schedule by $2,000 worth of work.




Question 15:
While working on a multinational project with a budget of $90,000, the team has completed the design aspect of the project. 
You have calculated that the AC is $30,000 and the EV is $32,000. What is the EAC of this project? 

$89,000
$92,804
$89,807
$84,906

Ans:$84,906.
    To find out the EAC, you will need the BAC and CPI. You currently have the BAC, which is $90,000. 
    The CPI is equal to EV/AC = $32,000/$30,000 = $1.06. So, the EAC is equal to $90,000/$1.06 = $84,906.




Question 16:
When creating the cost baseline, the project manager uses an S-curve graph to represent the baseline. 
Which of the following statements is true about the S-curve?  

It is a time phase view of the cost baseline
It is a time phase view of the project schedule
It is a time phase view of the project scope
It's used to create the project schedule

Ans:It is a time phase view of the cost baseline
    The S-curve is a time phase view of the cost baseline, which typically shows the budget 
    versus the actual amount spent on the project.

Note:
    An S-curve graph is a visual representation of project progress over time.

    Key Characteristics:
        Cumulative Progress: It tracks the cumulative work completed over time, rather than the rate of work.
        S-Shape: The characteristic S-shape reflects the typical pattern of project execution, starting slowly, 
        accelerating, and then slowing down as the project nears completion.
        Baseline: The baseline is the planned or expected progress curve. Deviations from the baseline 
        can indicate issues or opportunities.
        Actual Progress: The actual progress curve represents the actual work completed over time.

    Uses of S-Curve Graphs:
        Monitoring Progress: S-curves are used to visually track project progress against the planned schedule.
        Identifying Issues: Deviations from the baseline can indicate potential issues or risks that need to be addressed.
        Forecasting Completion: By analyzing the current progress, S-curves can be used to forecast the project's expected completion date.
        Measuring Performance: S-curves can be used to measure the project's overall performance and identify areas for improvement.





Question 17:
Which one of the following is FALSE about TCPI?   

TCPI calculates the performance that must be achieved in order to meet financial or schedule goals
TCPI usually determines the status of the remaining work with respect to the funds remaining
If the cumulative CPI falls below the baseline plan, all future work must be performed at the TCPI to achieve the planned BAC
If the cumulative CPI falls below the baseline plan, all future work must be performed below the TCPI to achieve the planned BAC

Ans:If the cumulative CPI falls below the baseline plan, all future work must be performed below the TCPI to achieve the planned BAC
    TCPI calculates the performance that must be achieved to meet financial or schedule goals and determines the status of the remaining work 
    with respect to the remaining funds. If the cumulative CPI falls below the baseline plan, 
    all future work must be performed AT the TCPI to achieve the planned BAC.


Note:
    TCPI is a metric used in project management to evaluate the expected performance required to 
    complete a project within the remaining budget. It is calculated by dividing the remaining budget by the remaining work to be done.

    Formula:
        TCPI = Remaining Budget / Remaining Work

    Interpretation:
        TCPI > 1: Indicates that the project is expected to be completed within the remaining budget.
        TCPI = 1: Indicates that the project is expected to be completed exactly within the remaining budget.
        TCPI < 1: Indicates that the project is likely to exceed the remaining budget and requires corrective action.

    Example:
        If a project has a remaining budget of $100,000 and an estimated remaining work value of $80,000, then the TCPI would be:
        TCPI = $100,000 / $80,000 = 1.25

        In this case, the project is expected to be completed within the remaining budget with a 
        performance index of 1.25, which suggests that the project is performing better than planned.




Question 18:
Earned Value Management (EVM) would NOT be very beneficial in which situation?  

To measure a project's progress against the project scope, cost, and schedule baselines
To forecast future performance and the project's completion date and final cost
To provide schedule and budget variances during the project
To develop the project cost baseline

Ans:To develop the project cost baseline
    Earned value analysis provides a means by which to determine cost and schedule variances, not to develop the project cost baseline.


Question 19:
While developing complex software, the project manager decided to bill the company by how many lines 
of codes it will take to write the software. 
What type of estimate best describes this scenario?   

Bottom-up estimating
Analogous estimating
Parametric estimating
Three-point estimating

Ans:Parametric estimating 
    Parametric estimating uses mathematical models based on historical records from other projects. 

    It utilizes the statistical relationship that exists between a series of historical data and a particular 
    delineated list of other variables.



Question 20:
Which of the following statements would be considered false about a project that has an SPI of 1.2 and the CPI of .7?

The project is being crashed to complete it faster
The project is being fast tracked to complete it faster
The project is ahead of schedule and over budget
A change request may be needed to correct the budget

Ans:The project is being fast tracked to complete it faster
    Of the choices, the only answer that could be incorrect would be that the project is being fast tracked, 
    since fast tracking generally results in a shorter schedule but does not affect costs. All other choices are 100% true, 
    since the project is over budget but ahead of schedule.









Quiz 6: Quality Quiz
==============================================

Question 1:
A project manager working on a phone development project has met with the project team to determine the grade and quality of the product. 
The phone requires only basic functionality to be sold in emerging markets. 
What should the quality and grade be for the project?   

High quality, high grade
High quality, low grade
Low quality, high grade
Low quality, low grade


Ans: High quality, low grade
    All project deliverables should be high quality but not necessarily high grade. 
    A low-grade product will not have as much functionality as a high-grade product. This question asks about a low-functionality product.

Note:
    High quality, high grade: This refers to a product or service that is both excellent in terms of its quality 
    and its level of sophistication or complexity. Examples include luxury cars, fine wines, or high-end electronics.

    High quality, low grade: This describes a product or service that is excellent in quality but is relatively simple or basic. 
    Examples include high-quality, everyday items like well-made clothing or durable tools.

    Low quality, high grade: This is a less common combination, but it could refer to a product or service that is complex or 
    sophisticated but lacks the expected level of quality. This might be due to defects, poor materials, or inadequate craftsmanship.

    Low quality, low grade: This refers to a product or service that is both poor in quality and simple or basic. 
    Examples include inexpensive, poorly made goods or services that do not meet expectations.





Question 2:
The project manager has met with the project team to determine when to do the inspections on the project. 
The project manager would like to do minimal inspections but still have a high-quality product. 
Which of the following actions would lead to fewer inspections but higher quality?   

Have well-defined requirements
Have a larger budget
Implement more preventive actions
Conduct more quality control

Ans:Implement more preventive actions
    Quality is about prevention. The more a defect is prevented, the fewer inspections will be needed. 
    For example, hiring a well-trained programmer would require fewer code inspections.

Note:
    Have well-defined requirements: Clearly defined requirements ensure that everyone involved in 
    the project understands what needs to be done and how it should be done. This helps to prevent 
    misunderstandings and errors, and ultimately leads to a higher quality product or service.

    Have a larger budget: A larger budget can be used to invest in higher quality materials, 
    better equipment, and more experienced personnel. This can help to improve the overall quality of the project.

    Implement more preventive actions: Preventive actions are designed to prevent problems 
    from occurring in the first place. This can include things like training employees on quality procedures, 
    conducting regular inspections, and implementing quality control systems.

    Conduct more quality control: Quality control involves inspecting the work that has been done to ensure that 
    it meets the required standards. This can help to identify and correct defects before they become more serious problems.




Question 3:
Which of the following statements about quality management is false?   

Customer satisfaction is a test of quality
It's cheaper to let customers find defects
Prevention leads to fewer inspections.
Management is responsible for quality

Ans:It's cheaper to let customers find defects
    It is always more expensive to let the customers find defects. This can lead to warranty issues, recalls, or loss of reputation. 
    All of the other choices are true.



Question 4:
While working on a product redesign project, the project manager has met with the company’s senior management 
to inform them that they need to provide adequate resources to ensure the product’s quality. 
Which of the following statements is true about management’s responsibility regarding quality?

Management is not responsible for quality on a project.
Management is only responsible for quality in operations.
Management is responsible for quality throughout the organization.
Only the project team is responsible for quality on a project.

Ans:Management is responsible for quality throughout the organization.
    Management is responsible for quality throughout the organization in operations and project management.



Question 5:
The company has informed all company employees that they must pay careful attention to the work that they are doing to 
ensure the company delivers a quality product. 
What quality management theory best illustrates this scenario?

Continuous improvement
Just in time
ISO 9000
Total quality management

Ans:Total quality management
    Total quality management (TQM) is when everyone in the company is responsible for quality in the underlying process 
    of how a product is made.

Note:
    Continuous Improvement
        Definition: A philosophy that emphasizes the ongoing pursuit of excellence and the elimination of waste.
        Purpose: To continually enhance product quality, process efficiency, and customer satisfaction.
        Techniques: Kaizen, Six Sigma, Lean
        Example: Implementing regular process reviews and implementing changes to improve efficiency.

    Just-in-Time (JIT)
        Definition: A production strategy that aims to minimize waste by producing goods only as needed, eliminating excess inventory.
        Purpose: To reduce costs, improve quality, and increase responsiveness to customer demand.
        Techniques: Kanban, pull systems
        Example: Scheduling production to match demand, reducing lead times, and minimizing inventory levels.

    ISO 9000
        Definition: A family of international standards that establish quality management systems (QMS) for organizations.
        Purpose: To provide a framework for ensuring consistent product and service quality.
        Requirements: Documentation, process control, customer satisfaction, and continuous improvement.
        Example: Implementing a quality management system that meets ISO 9000 standards.

    Total Quality Management (TQM)
        Definition: A comprehensive approach to quality that involves all employees and focuses on customer satisfaction.
        Purpose: To create a culture of quality throughout the organization.
        Principles: Customer focus, leadership, employee involvement, process approach, continuous improvement, decision-making based on facts, supplier relationships, and striving for excellence.
        Example: Implementing a TQM program that includes employee training, quality circles, and performance measurement.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Continuous improvement is a core principle of PMP, emphasizing the ongoing pursuit of excellence.
    Just-in-Time can be applied to project management to minimize waste and improve efficiency.
    ISO 9000 provides a framework for implementing a quality management system within a project.
    Total Quality Management aligns with the broader principles of PMP, focusing on customer satisfaction and continuous improvement.




Question 6:
The project team has met with the project manager to develop the quality management plan and the quality metrics. 
What project documents contain the product quality requirements that the team would use to create quality metrics? 

Requirements management plan
Requirements documentation
Requirements traceability matrix
Stakeholder register

Ans:Requirements documentation
    The requirements documentation includes the project and the product quality requirements. 
    The requirements management plan will document how to manage the project requirements, 
    and the traceability matrix will show the origin of the requirements.




Question 7:
While developing a smart phone, the project team has decided to look at other smart phones in the market to see how fast they start. 
The team members know that to be competitive, they will need to meet the startup times of the smart phones currently on the market. 
What tool would best help the project team in this scenario?   

Brainstorming
Interviewing
Benchmarking
Determining cost of quality

Ans:Benchmarking
    Benchmarking is a tool used to compare the standards of comparable projects or products. 
    This can include meeting certain parameters that are industry specific.



Question 8:
While planning a project’s quality, the project team has identified certain costs that would need to be included in the project budget, 
such as testing, inspections, and having the right equipment to do the job. What best describes these costs?   

Cost of conformance
Cost of nonconformance(অসঙ্গতি)
Cost of poor quality
Cost of great quality

Ans:Cost of conformance
    The cost of quality includes the cost of conformance, which usually includes prevention costs, such as training, 
    equipment, appraisal costs, testing, and inspections. The nonconformance cost includes reworking, scrapping, and the loss of business. 
    All other choices are made-up terms.

Note:
    Cost of Conformance
        Definition: Costs incurred to prevent defects or nonconformance.
        Examples: Prevention costs (e.g., training, quality planning, audits), appraisal costs (e.g., inspections, testing).
        Purpose: To proactively address quality issues and avoid the higher costs of nonconformance.

    Cost of Nonconformance
        Definition: Costs incurred due to defects or nonconformance.
        Examples: Internal failure costs (e.g., rework, scrap), external failure costs (e.g., warranty claims, customer dissatisfaction).
        Purpose: To quantify the financial impact of poor quality on the project.

    Cost of Poor Quality
        Definition: A comprehensive term that encompasses both the cost of conformance and the cost of nonconformance.
        Purpose: To provide a complete picture of the financial implications of quality issues.

    Cost of Great Quality
        Definition: While not a specific term used in PMP, it can be interpreted as the benefits derived from 
        high-quality products or services.
        Examples: Increased customer satisfaction, improved brand reputation, reduced costs due to fewer defects, 
        and increased market share.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Quality costs are used to assess the financial impact of quality issues and to guide decision-making regarding 
    quality improvement efforts.
    The goal of quality management is to minimize the cost of nonconformance and maximize the cost of great quality.
    By understanding the various costs associated with quality, project managers can make informed decisions about 
    resource allocation, quality control measures, and risk management.






Question 9:
The project team would like to document the sequence of steps that the process should follow to ensure that the deliverables are being 
made with the correct quality requirements. What tool can best help the team show the sequence of 
steps and whether there’s any room for improvement in a given process?

Cost of quality
Process charts
Flowcharts
Process improvement charts

Ans:Flowcharts
    A flowchart is sometimes called a process diagram, which can display the sequence of steps a given process will follow. 

    Process charts and process improvement charts are made-up terms. The cost of quality examines the 
    conformance and nonconformance cost of quality.



Question 10:
After a brainstorming session, the team members have accumulated a lot of different ideas that they 
can use to ensure the development of a good quality product. 
Their next step is to organize this information in a visual chart to make it easier for other stakeholders to understand. 
What method can best help the team?

Flowcharts
Mind Mapping
Critical Path Method
Ishikawa Diagram

Ans:Mind Mapping
    Mind mapping is a method used to visually organize information. 

    A flowchart can display the sequence of the steps that 
    the process will follow. The critical path method is used to find the minimum duration on a network diagram. 
    An Ishikawa diagram, also known as a cause and effect diagram, shows the reasons for potential cause.

Note:
    Flowcharts are visual representations of processes, using shapes and arrows to show the sequence of steps. 
    They're useful for understanding complex processes and identifying potential bottlenecks.

    Mind Mapping is a non-linear brainstorming technique that helps visualize ideas and their relationships. 
    It's often used for project planning, problem-solving, and decision-making.

    Critical Path Method (CPM) is a project scheduling technique that identifies the longest sequence of activities 
    (critical path) that determines the project's overall duration. It helps in identifying critical tasks and managing project timelines.

    Ishikawa Diagram (also known as a Fishbone Diagram) is a cause-and-effect diagram used to identify the 
    root causes of a problem. It helps in brainstorming potential causes and understanding their relationships.



Question 11:
The project’s team members have documented what quality standards are to be used on the project and the different roles 
and responsibilities for quality management on the project. 
What project component will store this information? 

Requirements management plan
Quality management plan
Scope management plan
Resource management plan

Ans:Quality management plan
    The quality management plan includes the quality standards to be used on the project, the quality objectives of 
    the project, and the quality roles and responsibilities.

Note:
    Requirements Management Plan
        Purpose: Defines how requirements will be identified, documented, tracked, and managed throughout the project.
        Key elements: Requirements elicitation techniques, traceability matrix, change management process.

    Quality Management Plan
        Purpose: Outlines the processes and techniques to ensure the project meets defined quality standards.
        Key elements: Quality metrics, quality control activities, quality assurance activities.

    Scope Management Plan
        Purpose: Defines the project's scope, boundaries, and deliverables.
        Key elements: Work breakdown structure (WBS), scope definition, scope verification process.

    Resource Management Plan
        Purpose: Describes how project resources (e.g., people, equipment, materials) will be acquired, allocated, and managed.
        Key elements: Resource requirements, resource allocation, resource leveling, time management.

How these plans interact:
    Requirements Management Plan: Defines what needs to be done.
    Scope Management Plan: Defines the boundaries of what needs to be done.
    Quality Management Plan: Ensures that the work is done correctly.
    Resource Management Plan: Ensures that the necessary resources are available to complete the work.





Question 12:
What in quality management describes a project or product attribute and how the quality control process will verify compliance to it?


Quality metrics
Requirements metrics
Scope metrics
Quality tests

Ans:Quality metrics 
    Quality metrics specifically describe a project or product attribute and how the control quality process will verify compliance to it. 
    Examples can include a task completed on time, the failure rate, or the number of defects identified per day.


Note:
    Quality Metrics
        Definition: Measurable indicators used to assess the quality of a product, service, or process.
        Examples: Defect rate, customer satisfaction, rework rate, process cycle time.
        Purpose: To track quality performance, identify areas for improvement, and demonstrate compliance with quality standards.

    Requirements Metrics
        Definition: Measurable indicators used to assess the quality of project requirements.
        Examples: Requirement completeness, clarity, consistency, traceability, testability.
        Purpose: To ensure that requirements are well-defined, unambiguous, and aligned with project objectives.

    Scope Metrics
        Definition: Measurable indicators used to assess the scope of a project.
        Examples: Scope creep, scope creep rate, scope change requests.
        Purpose: To track changes to the project scope and ensure that the project remains within its defined boundaries.

    Quality Tests
        Definition: Activities or procedures used to verify that a product or service meets defined quality standards.
        Examples: Unit testing, integration testing, system testing, acceptance testing.
        Purpose: To identify defects and ensure that the product or service meets customer expectations.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Quality metrics are used to measure the effectiveness of quality management activities.
    Requirements metrics help ensure that project requirements are well-defined and aligned with project objectives.
    Scope metrics help track changes to the project scope and prevent scope creep.
    Quality tests are used to verify that the product or service meets quality standards.




Question 13:
Manage quality is a process that is done to increase the probability of meeting a project’s quality requirements. 
From what other process does manage quality get the data needed to improve quality management?   

Validate scope
Control scope
Plan quality management
Control quality

Ans:Control quality
    The manage quality process uses the data and results from the control quality process 
    to ensure that the quality is being improved and met.

Note:
    Project Management Professional (PMP) methodology:

    Plan Quality Management: This is the initial step where you define the quality standards, quality control activities, 
    and quality assurance activities for the project.

    Control Quality: This involves monitoring and measuring the project's outputs to ensure they meet defined quality standards. 
    It includes activities like inspections, testing, and audits.

    Validate Scope: This is a process to ensure that the work completed matches the requirements specified in the project scope
    statement. It involves reviewing deliverables and obtaining formal acceptance from stakeholders.

    Control Scope: This involves managing changes to the project scope and ensuring that only approved changes are implemented. 
    It includes activities like change control and scope verification.





Question 14:
When managing project quality, what process does the project manager follow to ensure that the processes the project adheres to 
will produce a quality deliverable?   

Control quality
Validate scope
Close project or phase
Manage quality

Ans:Manage quality
    Manage quality is a process that improves the quality management processes the project will follow to produce a quality deliverable. 
    It uses data from the control quality process, in particular, the quality control measurements.




Question 15:
While working for a large, multinational project, the project manager meets with the project sponsor to talk about managing 
quality on the project. The sponsor would like to know whose job it is to manage the quality on the project. 
What should the project manager’s response be?  

Managing quality is everybody’s job in the organization.
Managing quality is only the project manager’s job.
Managing quality is only the project team’s job.
Managing quality is senior management’s job.

Ans:Managing quality is everybody’s job in the organization.
    Managing quality is considered to be everybody’s job, including the project manager, project team, project sponsor, 
    and the management of the performing organization—even the customers are involved.



Question 16:
The project team is having a difficult time identifying the main cause of the quality defects in the deliverables. 
What tool can best help the project team identify the reason(s) for these defects?   

Ishikawa diagrams
Histogram
Matrix diagram
Scatter diagram

Ans:An Ishikawa diagram,
    An Ishikawa diagram, also known as a fishbone diagram or cause-and-effect diagram, is used to help identify the causes of problems.

    Histograms are bar charts that can show frequencies, and a matrix diagram will help show a relationship in a process. 
    A scatter diagram will show the relationship between two variables.



Question 17:
The organization’s senior management is not happy with the quality of the project deliverables so far. 
They have decided that an audit on the project’s quality management is necessary. 
Who would best be selected to conduct the quality audit?

Project manager
Project team
Project sponsor
Organization's internal audit department

Ans: Organizational Internal audits
    Quality audits are best done by a team external to the project. 
    This ensure that there are no conflicts of interest during the audit and that the results are objective.




Question 18:
While designing a product, senior management informed the project manager that the product 
should be cost-effective, as the product will be sold in a developing country. 
What technique could the project managers use to ensure that the product’s design is cost-effective? 

Project management plan
Benchmarking
Design for X
Mind mapping

Ans:Design for X
    Designed for X is a technique that can be used to help design a product for a particular characteristic. 
    In this example, it’s designed for cost, in which case the product would be designed to be cost-effective. 
    X is a variable that can stand for reliability, deployment, assembly, cost, or safety.





Question 19:
The deliverables of the project have been completed, and the project team has decided to inspect the product to 
ensure that it has met the quality requirements. 
What process will the team use to inspect the deliverable for quality requirements?

Plan quality management
Manage quality
Control quality
Perform quality assurance

Ans:Control quality 
    Control quality ensures that the deliverables have met the quality requirements by inspecting them. 

    Manage quality ensures that the quality management processes are being met and improved on. Plan quality 
    management creates the quality management plan and describes the quality metrics. Perform quality assurance is not a PMBOK process.



Question 20:
The project manager has met the project team, and they have created a control chart to determine whether the quality processes 
are stable and if it needs to be improved. 
They have taken a sample of 30 deliverables that are produced in a row and have identified that six of them are consecutively 
above the middle line between the upper and lower limits. What should the project team do next?

Nothing the process is in control
Implement a change request to fix the process
Report to defect to the project sponsor
Create an Ishikawa diagram to identify the reasons for the defect

Ans: Nothing the process is in under controlled
    A control chart follows the rule of seven, which specifies that there must be seven consecutive points above or below the middle line, 
    which is the average of the data points, for the process to be out of control. 

    If a process is out of control, then the project manager will need to implement specific actions to fix the process.











Quiz 7: Resource Management Questions
=====================================-==

Question 1:
While managing a project, the project manager needs to be aware of the different types of resources on a project. 
Equipment, materials, facilities and infrastructure would be considered what type of resources?

Team resources
Physical resources
Personnel resources
Location resources

Ans:Physical resources
    There are two types of resources on a project: Team resources and physical resources. 

    Team resources are the personnel who will work on the project, and physical resources are the things they will use to 
    complete the work, such as equipment or materials.

Ntoe:
    Team Resources
        Definition: The people involved in the project, including project managers, team members, and stakeholders.
        Examples: Project manager, team leads, developers, testers, subject matter experts.
        Purpose: To provide the necessary skills, knowledge, and expertise to complete project tasks.

    Physical Resources
        Definition: Tangible assets used in the project, such as equipment, materials, and facilities.
        Examples: Computers, software, laboratories, office space, vehicles.
        Purpose: To support project activities and deliver project outputs.

    Personnel Resources
        Definition: A broader term that encompasses both team resources and physical resources, acknowledging 
        the interdependence between people and equipment.
        Purpose: To ensure that the project has the necessary resources to achieve its objectives.

    Location Resources
        Definition: The physical location where project activities are conducted.
        Examples: Offices, construction sites, remote work locations.
        Purpose: To provide a suitable environment for project execution and collaboration.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Resource management is a critical component of project management, ensuring that the project has the necessary 
    resources to achieve its objectives.
    Team, physical, personnel, and location resources are all essential for project success.
    Effective resource allocation involves balancing the needs of the project with the availability of resources.
    Resource management plans are used to define how resources will be acquired, allocated, and managed throughout the project.





Question 2:
An organization has decided to use agile methods on their next project. How will the organization describe an agile project team?   

Self-organizing
Project manager led
Organization led
PMO led

Ans:Self-organizing
    In an agile project the team is self-organizing and the project manager will provide a supporting environment 
    and trust that the team will do the job correctly.





Question 3:
To save money on a new project, the organization’s senior management has decided to use virtual teams instead of 
co-locating the entire project’s team. 
They have acquired the latest technology in audio and video conferencing. 
What is a potential issue that a virtual team might face?

Scheduling meetings
Having a diverse set of experts
Accommodating with people with disabilities
Feeling of isolation

Ans:Feeling of isolated
    One challenge a virtual team will face is the possibility of feeling isolated, since most workers will 
    generally work by themselves in an isolated place in their homes. Scheduling meetings can be done easily with technology. 
    One major advantage of virtual teams is that a diverse set of experts can work on a project. 
    Also, technology allows people with disabilities to easily communicate and work on projects.



Question 4:
The project team is using an assignment matrix, particularly a RACI chart. 
What is an important rule the team should use when using a RACI chart?   

Ensure that every activity has at least one responsible person
Ensure that every activity has one informed person
Ensure that every activity has one person who is consulted
Ensure that every activity has one person who is held accountable

Ans:Ensure that every activity has one person who is held accountable
    When using a RACI chart, one person must be held accountable for each activity listed on the chart.

Note:
    A RACI chart (Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, Informed) is a matrix used to clarify roles and 
    responsibilities within a project or organization. It helps to avoid confusion and ensure that tasks are 
    assigned to the appropriate individuals.




Question 5:
The project manager has completed the resource management plan and has decided to lay out what could be considered acceptable behavior 
by the project team members. Where will the project manager communicate the ground rules on the project?   

In the Project charter
In the Resource charter
In the Team charter
In the Project resource charter

Ans:In the Team charter
    The team charter establishes clear expectations regarding acceptable behavior by project team members. 
    The project charter authorizes the project manager to manage the project. All other choices are made-up terms.

Note:
    In the Project Charter: This refers to the high-level document that formally authorizes a project and defines 
    its scope, objectives, and deliverables.

    In the Resource Charter: This term is not commonly used in project management. It's possible that you might be referring 
    to the Resource Management Plan, which outlines how project resources will be acquired, allocated, and managed.

    In the Team Charter: This document defines the roles, responsibilities, and expectations of the project team members. 
    It helps to establish team norms, communication protocols, and decision-making processes.

    In the Project Resource Charter: This is a less common term, but it could potentially refer to a document that outlines 
    the specific resources required for the project, such as equipment, materials, and personnel.





Question 6:
Which stakeholders would be the best to create the team charter?   

Project manager
Project team
Project sponsor
Senior management

Ans:Project team
    The team charter works best when the team helps develop it or at least has the ability to contribute to its creation, 
    since it will outline acceptable behavior on the project.

Note:
    A team charter is a document that outlines the purpose, goals, roles, responsibilities, and operating guidelines of a project team.



Question 7:
Senior management and the project sponsor will hold a meeting about the current project in 2 days. 
They have requested a breakdown of the different resources that the project will use. 
What document should the project manager show during the meeting to display the resources by type?   

Resource requirements
Basis of estimates
Resource breakdown structure
WBS

Ans:Resource breakdown structure
    The resource breakdown structure is a hierarchical representation of resources by category and type.

    The basis of estimate would show supporting details for why a particular resource was assigned to an activity. 
    Resource requirements will describe what and how many resources are needed for each activity on the project.




Question 8:
Which of the following statements is false about the process of acquire resources?   

Acquire resources is done once on a project to acquire physical and team resources
Acquire resources is done throughout the project to acquire physical and team resources
Some team members may be pre-assigned to the project before this process takes place
The project manager should consider virtual teams while doing this process

Ans:Acquire resources is done once on a project to acquire physical and team resources
    The process of acquire resources is done throughout the project at certain intervals, as different resources are released and 
    new resources join the project. All other statements are true.



Question 9:
The project management plan has been completed, and the project manager has just executed the project. 
His next task will be to select the team members to work on the project. 
What are some criteria  the project manager should be using when selecting team members?

Availability, costs, and age
Availability, experience, and religion
Age, attitude, and skills
Availability, costs, and skills

Ans:Availability, costs, and skills
    While they are many different criteria a project manager can use when selecting a team member, 
    age and religion should not be one of them.



Question 10:
The project manager has assigned many resources to work on the project. Some team members will work on weekdays and a few on weekends. 
What should the project manager do next?

Update the resource calendars
Update the cost baseline
Update the schedule baseline
Update the resource baseline

Ans:Update the resource calendars
    Once team members have been assigned to the project, the project manager should create a resource calendar to 
    show their availability while working on the project.



Question 11:
The project manager has brought the team members together, and they have introduced themselves to each other and learned about the project. 
After this, the team starts to disagree about how the work on the project should be done. 
What x of Tuckman’ s ladder is the team currently at?

Performing
Forming
Storming
Adjourning

Ans:Storming
    The storming stage comes after the forming stage on the Tuckman’ s ladder. During the storming stage, the team begins to address the 
    project work and may have conflicts with each other.

Note:
    The model has five stages:
        Forming: Team members meet, get to know each other, and understand the project goals.
        Storming: Conflicts may arise as personalities clash and team roles are tested.
        Norming: Team starts resolving conflicts, developing stronger cohesion and cooperation.
        Performing: The team operates efficiently toward achieving project goals with minimal supervision.
        Adjourning: The project concludes, and the team disbands after completing the work.
    


Question 12:
The project manager realizes that a lot of the team members are feeling isolated from each other. 
So, the project manager rents a meeting room where they can all get together and discuss a few of the project’s issues in a 
face-to-face setting. What tool is the project manager using?

Single location
Colocation
Project location
Team location

Ans:Colocation
    A colocation is a place where team members meet in the same physical location to enhance their ability to perform as a team. 
    All other choices are made-up terms.



Question 13:
Project manager Mark does not believe that his team can complete the work without him inspecting the work throughout the project. 
His distrust of the project team has led to conflicts with different team members. 
What theory is Mark following to manage his team?

Theory Z
Theory X
Theory Y
Herzberg theory of motivation

Ans:Theory X
    Theory X is a theory that involves managers who distrust their workers and believe that people do not like to work and 
    need to be managed consistently. They’re mostly known as micromanagers and can lead to poor team morale.

Note:
    Douglas McGregor’s Theory X and Theory Y.

    Theory X assumes that:
        Employees dislike work and must be closely supervised.
        Workers avoid responsibility and need to be controlled or coerced to perform.
        Motivation is mainly through fear and punishment.

    Theory Y assumes the opposite:
        Employees are self-motivated, enjoy their work, and seek responsibility.
        Workers can be creative and self-directed when given the opportunity.
        Motivation comes from rewards, recognition, and opportunities for personal growth



Question 14:
Project manager Mark has been assigned to the software development project. Mark has more than 20 years of experience as 
a software developer, and all of the team members are very happy that he is currently leading the team. 
They go to him for technical and management-related issues on the project. 
What form of power best describes Mark’s power on the project?

Expert Power
Subject Matter Expert Power
Technical Power
Technical Management Power

Ans:Expert power
    Expert power is when the project manager is considered to be an expert in the field in which the project is taking place. 
    The other choices are made-up forms of power.

Note:
    Expert Power: You have special knowledge or skills that others rely on. People trust your expertise.

    Subject Matter Expert (SME) Power: You are an expert in a specific area, like finance, marketing, or a specific technology.

    Technical Power: You have strong technical skills, like programming, engineering, or IT, and people depend on you for that.

    Technical Management Power: You not only have technical knowledge but also the ability to manage technical teams effectively.



Question 15:
While working with the project team, the project manager has been looking into the different strengths and weaknesses of the 
team as a whole and the individual members. He has found that some members are very strong as leaders and 
some members are strong in technical roles. 
What tool is the project manager currently using?   

Training
Meetings
Individual and team assessment
Team performance assessments

Ans:Individual and team assessment 
    Individual and team assessment is used in the process of developing the team. It is done to gain insight into strengths and weaknesses 
    for the team and its members.



Question 16:
While working on the product redesign project, the project manager has encountered different issues with the team members. 
He has been able to solve most of the issues between the team members while still working with other members to find solutions. 
What process is the project manager using?   

Develop team
Manage team
Control resource
Acquire resources


Ans:Manage team
    The process of manage team is about tracking team members’ performance, providing feedback, and resolving issues. 

    Develop team is about bringing the team together and ensuring that members work together efficiently. 
    Acquire resources is done throughout the project to acquire the different team and physical resources 
    needed to complete the project’s activities. Control resources is done to manage the physical resources for the project.



Question 17:
While working on the software development project, project manager Mary has encountered an issue between Mark, 
the lead programmer, and Peter, the designer. Peter notes that the way that Mark is programming the application means 
it will not work in a production environment. What should Mary do next?

Ask Mark to stop programming the application
Inform Peter that Mark is in charge of programming
Meet with Peter and Mark to get a better understanding of the issue
Inform the project sponsor of the issue

Ans:Meet with Peter and Mark to get a better understanding of the issue
    When a project manager encounters an issue, the first step is to get as much information about the issue as 
    possible before taking any kind of action. 
    Taking action without first understanding an issue can lead to the wrong actions being taken.



Question 18:
While working on the network upgrade project, team members Bill and Mark have an issue regarding how to upgrade the routers and firewalls. 
Bill says both devices should have a certain configuration, while Mark says both devices need another set of configurations. T
he project manager has met with both of them, and after analyzing the issue, 
the only solution they came up with was to have Mark configure the router and bill configure the firewall. 
What conflict resolution best illustrates this solution?   

Withdrawal
Compromise
Forcing
Collaborating

Ans:Compromise
    Compromise is determining a solution in which both sides generally give up something to temporarily or partially resolve the conflict. 
    This is known as a win-win situation.

Note:
    Withdrawal (Avoidance):
        In this approach, the person involved steps away from the conflict or avoids addressing the issue altogether.
        It may be used when the conflict is minor or when it’s not the right time to address the issue.
        However, it doesn’t solve the conflict and might make it worse in the long term.

    Compromise:
        Both parties give up something to reach a mutually acceptable solution.
        This is a “win-win” approach where no one gets exactly what they want, but the solution is fair for both sides.
        It’s useful when the conflict needs to be resolved quickly, but it might leave both sides partially dissatisfied.

    Forcing:
        One person insists on their solution to the conflict, regardless of others’ views.
        It’s a “win-lose” approach where one party wins, and the other loses.
        This technique can be effective in emergencies or when quick decisions are needed but may harm relationships.

    Collaborating:
        Both parties work together to find a solution that fully satisfies everyone.
        It’s a “win-win” approach where both sides openly share their views and work toward a mutually beneficial solution.
        While it takes more time and effort, it often leads to stronger relationships and long-term resolution.




Question 19:
The project manager has just joined the project, as the previous project manager was not getting along with the project team. 
The project manager’s first action is to inspire the team to complete the project work. 
What interpersonal and team skills is the project manager using?   

Conflict management
Decision-making
Influencing
Leadership

Ans:Leadership
    Leadership is the ability to lead a team and inspire members to do their jobs well. 
    Conflict management is used to resolve issues between team members. 
    Decision making is used to make decisions about what should come next on a project. 
    Influencing is the ability to persuade individuals to take a position on something.



Question 20:
While managing a small office renovation project, the project manager is disappointed that the team is misusing the 
physical resources available to them. 
They seem to be overusing the resources, leading to a cost increase on the project, to purchase more resources. 
What process did the project manager fail to perform since the project was executed?   

Acquire resources
Manage resources
Develop resources
Control resources

Ans:Control resources
    Control resources is the process of ensuring that the physical resources that are assigned to the project are being utilized as planned. 
    In this scenario, it seems that the project manager failed to perform this process after the start of the project, which led to the team i
    ncorrectly utilizing physical resources. 
    Acquire resources is an executing process that is used to acquire the team and physical resources. 
    Manage and develop resources are not actual PMBOK processes.









Quiz 8: Communications Management Questions
===============================================
Question 1:
One of the main goals of communications management is to…? 

Prevent misunderstandings and miscommunications
Selection of the communication methods
Determine which messages to send
Collect the stakeholders requirements

Ans:Prevent misunderstandings and miscommunications
    Project communications management is about preventing misunderstandings and miscommunications. 
    This is done through the careful selection of methods and the messages that are being sent by the project manager.



Question 2:
The project manager has decided that he will send the project status reports to the stakeholders using emails and memos. 
The stakeholders will not have to request any of the information; the project manager will just send it to them. 
What communication method does this illustrate?   

Interactive communications
Push communication
Pull communication
Give communication

Ans:Push communication
    Push communication is when information is sent directly to the recipient. 

    Interactive communication is multidirectional exchange between the sender and receiver. 
    Pull communication is when the sender acquires the information at his or her own time using things such as a web portal.

Note:
    types of communication:
        Interactive Communication: This involves a two-way exchange of information where participants engage in 
            real-time discussions, such as meetings, phone calls, or video conferences. It ensures immediate feedback and clarification.

        Push Communication: This involves sending information to specific recipients who need it. 
            The information is distributed without expecting an immediate response. Examples include emails, memos, reports, or updates.

        Pull Communication: This occurs when recipients access information at their convenience. 
            It is useful when large volumes of information are available but only needed by specific stakeholders. 
            Examples include websites, knowledge repositories, or intranet systems.

        Give Communication: This term is not typically used in the context of project management communications. 




Question 3:
During project communications the receiver is having difficulty understanding the message. 
Which of the following can cause a message not to be understood by the receiver?   

Encoding
Decoding
Noise
Feedback

Ans:Noise
    Noise generally interferes with the receiver’s ability to understand the message. 
    Noise generally does not keep the sender from sending the message.




Question 4:
When selecting the correct communication technology, what should the project manager not be looking for?   

Ease of use
Sensitivity of the information
Urgency for information
Age of the technology

Ans:Age of the technology
    Whether technology is new or old, as long as it meets the project’s needs, it will be sufficient.



Question 5:
The project manager has reviewed the stakeholder register and has concluded that there are 17 stakeholders on the project.
After speaking with a few of them, he added four more stakeholders. 
How many communication channels are there currently on the project?

200
420
210
21

Ans:210
    To get the answer correct, you will need to use the communications formula, which is N(N-1)/2. 
    Replacing N with 21 stakeholders currently will give you 21(21-1)/2 = 210.



Question 6:
The project manager has completed the communications management plan. 
Which of the following choices would not be part of the communications management plan?  

Who should receive project communications
What communications should be sent
A glossary of common terminology
The requirements for the project's scope

Ans:The requirements for the project's scope
    The requirements for the project’s scope are generally kept in the project scope statement, not the communication management plan.




Question 7:
The project manager is working on a multinational project and has met with the company’s senior management during a private meeting to 
discuss the project’s performance. They have indicated that they are very happy with the progress and would 
like the meetings to be shorter next time. 
What process best describes this scenario?   

Plan Communications Management
Manage Communications
Control Communications
Monitor Communications

Ans:Manage communications 
    Manage communications is the process to ensure the timely and appropriate collection, creation, management, and 
    disposition of project information. 
    The project manager is currently updating the stakeholders on the progress of the project.

Ntoe:
    Plan Communications Management
        Definition: The process of developing a communication plan to identify stakeholders, their information needs, 
        and the best methods for communicating with them.
        Purpose: To ensure that project information is delivered to the right people at the right time.

    Manage Communications
        Definition: The process of creating, collecting, and disseminating project information.
        Purpose: To keep stakeholders informed about project progress, issues, and decisions.

    Control Communications
        Definition: The process of ensuring that project information is disseminated effectively and that communication 
        channels are managed appropriately.
        Purpose: To prevent misunderstandings and ensure that stakeholders have the information they need.

    Monitor Communications
        Definition: The process of monitoring communication activities to ensure that they are effective and efficient.
        Purpose: To identify communication issues and take corrective action.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Plan Communications Management lays the foundation for effective communication by identifying stakeholders and defining 
    communication channels.
    Manage Communications involves the actual creation and dissemination of project information.
    Control Communications ensures that communication is managed effectively and efficiently.
    Monitor Communications helps to identify communication issues and take corrective action.




Question 8:
What is it called when a project manager builds a consensus and overcomes obstacles when managing a group?  

Active listening
Facilitation
Selective listening
Meeting management

Ans:Facilitation
    Facilitation is building consensus and overcoming obstacles. This will lead to better group dynamics and maintaining interest 
    among a group of people.


Note:
    Active Listening: Fully focusing on the speaker, responding thoughtfully, and confirming understanding.
    Facilitation: Guiding group discussions to achieve objectives and encourage participation.
    Selective Listening: Hearing only what interests you, often leading to misunderstandings.
    Meeting Management: Planning and conducting efficient meetings to achieve goals effectively.



Question 9:
The project manager would like the team to actively listen during project meetings. 
How would the project manager know if active listening is taking place?   

Acknowledging, clarifying, and confirming
Using eye contact and body language
Whether someone is actively listening cannot be determined
Only using eye contact

Ans:Acknowledging, clarifying, and confirming
    Active listening generally involves acknowledging, clarifying and confirming information that is given.



Question 10:
When conducting the process of manage communication what does the project manager circulate to the stakeholders throughout the process? 

Work Performance Data
Work Performance Information
Work Performance Reports
Communication Management Plan

Ans:Work Performance Reports
    During the process of manage communications, the project manager will circulate the work performance 
    report as specified in the communication management plan.
    Work performance reports are sometimes known as status reports or progress reports.


Note:
    Work Performance Data: This refers to the raw data collected during project execution, such as actual 
    costs incurred, hours worked, defects discovered, and deliverables completed. It is used to monitor project 
    progress and measure performance against the project plan.

    Work Performance Information: This is processed and analyzed data derived from work performance data. 
    It provides insights into project performance, such as variances from the baseline plan, trends, and risks.

    Work Performance Reports: These are documents that summarize the project's progress, performance, and status. 
    They are typically prepared based on work performance information and are used to communicate project status to stakeholders.

    Communication Management Plan: This is a document that outlines the communication strategy for the project, 
    including who needs to be informed, what information they need, and how the information will be delivered. It helps to ensure that project stakeholders receive timely and relevant information.





Question 11:
The project manager is giving a presentation to a large group of senior stakeholders. 
The project manager knows that his communication skills make a big difference during the presentation. 
What type of communication skills are gestures, tone of voice, and facial expressions?   

Body Language
Presentation Skills
Body Skills
Nonverbal

Ans:Nonverbal
    Nonverbal communications include the appropriate body language used for transmitting meaningful information, 
    generally through tone of voice, gestures, and facial expressions.




Question 12:
The project manager has collected the work performance data and has created the work performance report.
The project manager distributes this status report according to the communication management plan. What tool best describes this?  

Project Information Distribution
Project Report Distribution
Project Reporting
Project Data Distribution

Ans:Project reporting 
    Project reporting is a tool that is used to manage communication to collect and distribute project information. 
    All other choices are not valid tools.




Question 13:
What does interacting with others to exchange information and develop contacts mean?   

Meeting Management
Networking
Political Awareness
Cultural Awareness

Ans:Networking
    Networking is a part of interpersonal and team skills in which you interact with others to exchange information and develop contacts.



Question 14:
The project manager is currently in the process of manage communications. During this process, what does the project manager do?   

Conduct project communications
Gather communication requirements
Change the communication management plan
Change the stakeholder engagement plan

Ans: Conduct Project communication.
    The output of the manage communications process is Project communications, which include updating the stakeholders on the 
    performance of the project. 

    Gathering communication requirements is done during the plan communications management process. 
    Manage communications does not have an output of changing requests, so changes in the communications and stakeholders’ 
    management plan cannot be done in this process.



Question 15:
15. While conducting communication management on a project, the project manager has determined that the 
communication management plan is not adequate for the project, and many stakeholders have complained about the lack of communication. 
What should the project manager do next?

Create a change request
Hold a meeting
Do more networking
Speak with the project team

Ans:Create a change request
    If a project manager determines that the communication management plan is inadequate for the project, 
    the next step is to create a change request to change the plan to better match the communication needs of the project.










Quiz 9: Risk Management Quiz
======================================
Question 1:
A project manager has just started the risk management process on a project. 
Which of the following statements accurately describes the objectives of risk management on a project?

Risk management is done to increase the probability and/or impact of positive risks
Risk management is done to decrease the probability and/or impact of negative risks
Risk management is done to minimize all risks
Risk management is done to increase the probability and/or impact of positive risks and decrease the probability 
and/or impact of negative risks

Ans:Risk management is done to increase the probability and/or impact of positive risks and decrease the 
    probability and/or impact of negative risks

    The objectives of project risk management include increasing the probability and/or impact of positive 
    risks and decreasing the probability and/or impact of negative risks.



Question 2:
While discussing risk management with a team member, what should the project manager say about the different risk levels?

There are two levels: individual project risks and overall project risks.
There is only one level of risk: individual project risks.
There is only one level of risk: overall project risks.
There two levels: project risks and operations risks.

Ans:There are two levels: individual project risks and overall project risks.
    The risk management process in the PMBOK lists two levels of project risks: individual and overall project risks.

Note:
    Individual Project Risks: These are specific, identifiable risks that can affect individual parts of a project. 
        For example, a delay in receiving materials or a team member being unavailable. 
        Each individual risk has its own impact and probability.
    Overall Project Risk: This is the cumulative effect of all individual risks combined, 
        reflecting the total uncertainty surrounding the entire project. 
        It considers how these risks together may affect the project's success or failure as a whole, 
        including schedule, budget, and performance.





Question 3:
A team member stops the project manager during the meeting to ask about positive risks. 
Which of the following statements about positive risks is false?

Positive risks can lead to a shortened schedule
Positive risks can lead to a longer schedule
Positive risks can lead to a smaller budget
Project risk and lead to more customer satisfaction

Ans:Positive risks can lead to a shortened schedule
    Positive risks are also known as opportunities and will impact the project positively. 
    This can include shortening the schedule budget and increasing customer satisfaction.




Question 4:
Which of the following statements is false in regard to how risks will affect the project?  

Risk will continue to emerge during the lifetime of the project
Risks should be monitored and managed as the project progresses
Risk identification should only be done at the beginning of the project
Risk identification is done throughout the project

Ans:Risk identification should only be done at the beginning of the project
    Risk identification is done throughout the project. As the project progresses, new risks will emerge and will 
    have to be assessed by the project team.




Question 5:
What kind of risk is about uncertainties that exist regarding what might happen in the future and cannot be predicted currently, 
such as regulatory frameworks or the future development of technology?   

Ambiguity risks
Variability risks
Project resilience
Positive risks

Ans:Ambiguity risks describe 
    Ambiguity risks describe the uncertainty that exists about what might happen in the future and are very difficult to predict, 
    such as future  regulations or changes in technology.


Note:
    The two main types of risks are:
        Known risks: These are risks that can be identified and anticipated. 
            They can be managed through risk assessment, planning, and mitigation strategies.

            The terms "ambiguity risks" and "variability risks" fall under the category of known risks. 
            They are risks that can be identified and managed through proper planning and risk assessment.

        Unknown risks: These are risks that are difficult or impossible to predict. 
            They may arise from unforeseen circumstances or events.






Question 6:
The project manager knows that managing risks is an important part of a project. 
One of the most important aspects is documenting the stakeholders’ risk appetite. 
Where would the project manager document the stakeholders’ risk appetite?      

In the stakeholders' engagement plan
In the scope management plan
In the risk management plan
In the risk register

Ans:In the risk management plan
    The stakeholders’ risk appetite is documented and stored in the risk management plan. 
    The stakeholders’ risk appetite is an important component of the plan, since it will help determine what risks will be acceptable.

Note:
    In the Stakeholders' Engagement Plan
        Defines how stakeholders will be identified, engaged, and communicated with throughout the project.
        Includes stakeholder analysis, communication plans, and engagement strategies.

    In the Scope Management Plan
        Defines the project's scope, boundaries, and deliverables.
        Includes work breakdown structure (WBS), scope definition, and scope verification process.

    In the Risk Management Plan
        Outlines the process for identifying, assessing, and responding to project risks.
        Includes risk identification techniques, risk assessment methods, and risk response strategies.

    In the Risk Register
        A document that lists all identified project risks, their potential impacts, and the planned responses.
        Used to track risk status and monitor risk mitigation efforts.

How these plans interact:
    Stakeholders' Engagement Plan: Identifies stakeholders and their needs.
    Scope Management Plan: Defines the project's boundaries and deliverables.
    Risk Management Plan: Identifies and addresses potential risks that could impact the project.
    Risk Register: Tracks identified risks and their status.







Question 7:
Senior management within the organization has requested a brief overview of how the project conducts risk management. 
They would like to see the different categories of risk that can affect the project. 
What should the project manager show them?

The risk breakdown structure
The work breakdown structure
The resource breakdown structure
The risk register

Ans:Risk breakdown structure 
    The risk breakdown structure is part of the risk management plan, and it shows the different categories of risk on a project.

Note:
    Risk Breakdown Structure (RBS):
        A hierarchical breakdown of project risks, similar to a work breakdown structure (WBS).
        Helps in identifying and categorizing potential risks.
        Used to create a comprehensive risk management plan.

    Work Breakdown Structure (WBS):
        A hierarchical decomposition of project deliverables into smaller, more manageable components.
        Used for project planning, scheduling, and resource allocation.
        Provides a visual representation of the project's scope.

    Resource Breakdown Structure (RBS):
        A hierarchical breakdown of project resources, such as personnel, equipment, and materials.
        Used for resource planning, allocation, and tracking.
        Helps in identifying resource requirements and potential bottlenecks.

    Risk Register:
        A document that lists all identified project risks, their potential impacts, and the planned responses.
        Used to track risk status and monitor risk mitigation efforts.





Question 8:
During the process of identify risks, the project manager has determined that the project team should be included as 
stakeholders who identify risks for the project. 
Which of the following statement is true about this approach?

It will lead to a more thorough risk register
It is incorrect and the project manager should have all stakeholders identify risks
It would be easier to come up with the risk responses
It would be easier to implement the risk responses

Ans:It is incorrect and the project manager should have all stakeholders identify risks
    During the process of identify risks, all project stakeholders should be encouraged to help identify individual project risks. 
    This will lead to a more thorough risk register and include perspectives from all people affected by the project.



Question 9:
The project team is currently doing data analysis to help identify which risks can affect the project. 
What data analysis technique can they use to help determine if there are certain risks in the procurement agreement 
that can affect the project?   

Root cause analysis
Assumption and constrain analysis
SWOT analysis
Document analysis

Ans:Document analysis
    Document analysis is a structured review of the different project documents that could include contracts, 
    agreements, and different parts of the project plan.

Note:
    Root Cause Analysis
        Purpose: To identify the underlying causes of problems or defects.
        Techniques: Fishbone diagrams, 5 Whys analysis.
        Example: Using a fishbone diagram to identify the root causes of project delays.

    Assumption and Constraint Analysis
        Purpose: To identify and assess assumptions and constraints that could impact the project.
        Techniques: Brainstorming, Delphi technique.
        Example: Identifying assumptions about the availability of resources and assessing potential constraints 
        that could affect the project timeline.

    SWOT Analysis
        Purpose: To evaluate a project's strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.
        Technique: A structured analysis framework.
        Example: Identifying the project's competitive advantages, potential challenges, and external opportunities.

    Document Analysis
        Purpose: To review and analyze existing project documents to identify potential issues or areas for improvement.
        Techniques: Document review, content analysis.
        Example: Reviewing project plans, contracts, and meeting minutes to identify potential risks or gaps.

How these techniques relate within PMP:
    Root cause analysis is used to identify and address the underlying causes of problems.
    Assumption and constraint analysis helps to identify potential risks and challenges.
    SWOT analysis provides a comprehensive overview of the project's situation.
    Document analysis helps to identify potential issues or gaps in project documentation.





Question 10:
The project team has started to identify risks on the project. What method can they best use to identify both positive and negative 
risks while analyzing how strengths may offset threats and vice versa?   

Root cause analysis
Assumption and constrain analysis
SWOT analysis
Document analysis

Ans:SWOT analysis 
    The SWOT analysis is done to identify the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats of a project. 
    This strengths and opportunities are positive risks, and the weaknesses and threats are the negative risks. 
    By putting this into a quadrant diagram, the project team can see how strengths may offset threats, and vice versa.




Question 11:
The project team members have finished identifying risks up to this point in the project. 
They have created the risk register, which lists all of the individual project risks. 
What should the team create next?

The risk management plan
The risk response plan
The risk report
The risk implementation plan

Ans:The risk report
    The risk report is generally created with the risk register or after the risk register. 
    It includes information on the sources of overall project risks and a summary of information on the 
    identified individual project risks.




Question 12:
The project manager has met with the legal department within the organization to be informed of a new regulation that was recently 
passed that may impact the project. The project manager has added this risk to the risk register. 
What process should the project manager do next?   

Plan risk management
Perform quantitative risk analysis
Plan risk response
Monitor risks

Ans:Perform qualitative risk analysis
    Once a risk has been identified, the next step is to determine how the risks will impact the project. 
    This can be done by either doing a qualitative and/or a quantitative analysis. Sometimes, these two analyses are done sequentially, 
    in which case a qualitative analysis is done followed by a quantitative analysis, or they can be done in parallel. 
    Do not respond to a risk if you do not understand how the risk will impact the project.





Question 13:
The project team members are reviewing the risk in the risk register to determine which risks will have the greatest impact on a project. 
One risk in particular has a very high impact but the team has determined that this risk should be ranked(স্থান পেয়েছে) very low on the project. 
What statement best describes why this risk is ranked so low?   

The probability of the risk occurring is low (ঝুঁকি হওয়ার সম্ভাবনা কম)
The project team is not familiar with the risk
The risks will take place in the far future of the project
They're using the wrong methods to assess the risks

Ans:The probability of the risk occurring is low
    It is very likely that some risks may have a high impact and a low probability, which will lead to the risk being ranked very low. 
    An example is an earthquake in New York City. 
    The impact may be high, but the probability of it occurring may be very low, which leads to the risk being ranked lower.




Question 14:
The project team members are currently doing the process of perform qualitative risk analysis. 
They would like to use a tool that could not only display the probability of the risks or impact but the overall likelihood of the risks. 
What tool can be used to display the three parameters?     

Probability and impact matrix
Probability and impact assessment
Bubble chart
Ishikawa diagram

Ans:Bubble chart 
    A bubble chart is part of the tool data representation. It is used to display three dimensions of data. 
    All other choices may only displays two dimensions.

Note:
    Probability and Impact Matrix and Assessment: These tools are used to identify and prioritize risks based on their 
    likelihood and potential consequences.

    Bubble Chart: Can be used to visualize the results of the probability and impact assessment.

    Ishikawa Diagram: Can be used to identify the root causes of specific risks identified in the probability and impact assessment.



Question 15:
While conducting a brainstorming session with the team in order to rank the risks, the project manager is 
worried about the data the team is using to rank the risks. 
The project manager feels that some team members may only be speculating(অনুমান) about what the probability of a risks would be. 
What tool can best help the project manager in this scenario?

Risks probability and impact assessment
Risk data quality assessment
Probability and impact matrix
Hierarchical charts

Ans:Risk data quality assessment 
    Risk data quality assessment evaluates the degree to which the data about the individual risks is accurate and reliable. 
    If this data is not accurate then the entire assessment may be compromised and will not truly reflect the risk ranking on a project.


Note:
    Risk data quality assessment: Ensures that the data used for risk probability and impact assessment is accurate and reliable.
    Probability and impact assessment: Identifies and prioritizes risks based on their likelihood and potential consequences.
    Hierarchical charts: Can be used to visualize the structure of a project and identify potential 
        risks associated with different components.



Question 16:
The project manager and team has determined that if a flood were to take place during the building renovation project, 
it would delay the project by 2 weeks and cost approximately $50,000 in damages. 
What process did the project manager and team complete to collect these data?

Perform qualitative risk analysis
Perform quantitative risk analysis
Identify risks
Plan risk response

Ams:Perform quantitative risk analysis
    Quantitative risk analysis is a numerical analysis of how the risk will impact the project. 
    This is in contrast to a qualitative analysis, which would just rank the risks from the most important to the least important. 
    The project team did not come up with a response to the flood risks in this scenario, so the choice cannot be to plan a risk response. 
    Identify risk is used to create the risk register, and a risk report does not evaluate the risks.

Ntoe:
    Identify Risks
        Purpose: To identify potential threats and opportunities that could impact the project.
        Techniques: Brainstorming, Delphi technique, Ishikawa diagrams, SWOT analysis.

    Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis
        Purpose: To assess the likelihood and impact of identified risks.
        Techniques: Probability and impact matrices, risk scoring.

    Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis
        Purpose: To quantify the potential impact of identified risks using numerical data.
        Techniques: Monte Carlo simulation, decision tree analysis.

    Plan Risk Responses
        Purpose: To develop strategies to address identified risks.
        Techniques: Risk avoidance, risk mitigation, risk transfer, risk acceptance.

How these stages relate within PMP:
    Identify Risks: The first step in risk management is to identify potential threats and opportunities.
    Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis: Assess the likelihood and impact of identified risks.
    Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis: Quantify the potential impact of risks using numerical data.
    Plan Risk Responses: Develop strategies to address identified risks.





Question 17:
The project team has identified, ranked, and determined how the risks will impact the project. 
One risk in particular is a new regulation that may pass and could have a severe effect on the project and on the entire organization. 
What risk response strategy would be best for the team to take?  

Avoid
Transfer
Mitigate
Escalate

Ans:Escalate
    Since this is a risk that will not just affect the project but the entire organization, the project team should escalate the risk toward a 
    portfolio or the organization level. Let the organization’s legal department communicate with the 
    project manager and determine how to respond.

Note:
Risk Response Strategies in PMP: Avoid, Transfer, Mitigate, Escalate
    Avoid
    Definition: Eliminate the risk entirely.
    Example: If a supplier is unreliable, avoid using that supplier by finding an alternative.

    Transfer
    Definition: Shift the risk to a third party.
    Example: Purchase insurance to transfer the risk of property damage or liability.

    Mitigate
    Definition: Reduce the likelihood or impact of the risk.
    Example: Implement quality control measures to reduce the risk of defects.

    Escalate
    Definition: Notify stakeholders or management about the risk and seek their guidance.
    Example: If a significant risk arises that cannot be addressed by the project team, 
    escalate it to senior management for decision-making.

How these strategies relate within PMP:
    Risk response planning is a crucial component of project management.
    The choice of risk response strategy depends on the nature of the risk, its likelihood, and its potential impact.
    A combination of strategies may be necessary to effectively address certain risks.





Question 18:
The project team members are coming up with ways to respond to an opportunity that they feel will not likely happen. 
The opportunity is that the permit for the building renovation project comes earlier than its supposed six-week wait. 
Since the permit office is so backed up, the project team members have decided that if the permit does come earlier than 6 weeks, 
they will still start the work in 6 weeks. What risk response strategy does this illustrate?   

Escalate
Exploit
Enhance
Accept

Ans:Acceptance
    Acceptance of an opportunity is to take no proactive action before it happens. In this scenario, 
    the team is making no proactive response. 
    If the permit comes earlier, the team will still start the work in the 6 weeks that it would take for the permit to come normally.



Question 19:
While working on a 60-story skyscraper project, one supplier has informed the project manager that due to dangerous weather 
at the warehouse, the materials will be anywhere 1 to 2 months late. 
The project manager has already accounted for this risk and has decided to go with another supplier to get the materials. 
What process best illustrates this scenario?  

Plan risk response
Monitor risks
Implement risk response
Identify risks

Ans:Implement risk response
    In this scenario, the project manager is implementing the risk response. 
    The project manager is not trying to identify risks or plan a response.

Note:
    Identify Risks
        Purpose: To identify potential threats and opportunities that could impact the project.
        Techniques: Brainstorming, Delphi technique, Ishikawa diagrams, SWOT analysis.

    Plan Risk Responses
        Purpose: To develop strategies to address identified risks.
        Techniques: Risk avoidance, risk mitigation, risk transfer, risk acceptance.

    Implement Risk Responses
        Purpose: To put the planned risk response strategies into action.
        Techniques: Execute risk mitigation plans, implement risk avoidance measures, transfer risks to third parties.

    Monitor Risks
        Purpose: To track the effectiveness of risk response strategies and identify new risks.
        Techniques: Risk monitoring, risk audits.

How these stages relate within PMP:
    Identify Risks: The first step in risk management is to identify potential threats and opportunities.
    Plan Risk Responses: Develop strategies to address identified risks.
    Implement Risk Responses: Put the planned risk response strategies into action.
    Monitor Risks: Track the effectiveness of risk response strategies and identify new risks.




Question 20:
During the process of monitor risks, the project manager works with the organization to determine the effectiveness 
of the risk management processes. 
They have determined that the risk processes for the project are adequate and that no changes should be made. 
What tool best describes this?   

Audits
Data analysis
Meetings
Data representation

Ams:Audits
    Audits are done by the organization to determine the effectiveness of the risk management processes for a project.









Quiz 10: Procurement Management Quiz
================================================

Question 1:
When conducting procurement management for a project, what is one of the first things a project manager should research 
before awarding the contract?   

Laws and regulations of the country
The sponsor requirements
What terms and conditions to put in the contract
What payment terms to put in the contract

Ans:Laws and regulations of the country
    One of the first things to know before setting up a contract between a buyer and seller is the local laws and regulations of 
    that country and how it may affect the contract. Laws and regulations often affect what can and cannot be in a contract.



Question 2:
The project manager has met with the team, and they are currently deciding whether they should develop internal 
software to meet the needs of the project sponsor or purchase external commercial software. 
What process are they currently engaged in? 

Plan procurement management
Conduct procurement
Control procurement
Make-or-buy decisions

Ans:Plan procurement management
    Plan procurement management is the process of determining what the project team should procure, 
    if anything, and how it should be done.

Note:
    Plan Procurement Management
        Definition: The process of defining procurement requirements and strategies.
        Purpose: To determine what goods and services need to be procured, how they will be acquired, 
        and what criteria will be used to evaluate potential suppliers.

    Conduct Procurement
        Definition: The process of obtaining goods and services from external sources.
        Purpose: To ensure that the project has the necessary resources to achieve its objectives.

    Control Procurement
        Definition: The process of managing contracts with suppliers and ensuring that they meet their obligations.
        Purpose: To prevent contract disputes and ensure that the project receives the goods and services it needs.

    Make-or-Buy Decisions
        Definition: The process of deciding whether to acquire goods or services internally or externally.
        Purpose: To determine the most cost-effective and efficient way to obtain the necessary resources.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Plan Procurement Management lays the foundation for procurement activities by defining requirements and strategies.
    Conduct Procurement involves the actual acquisition of goods and services.
    Control Procurement ensures that contracts are managed effectively and that suppliers meet their obligations.
    Make-or-Buy Decisions are made during the planning phase to determine whether to procure goods and services internally or externally.





Question 3:
The project manager has negotiated a fixed-price contract with a steel supplier. The contract is for 4 years. 
The seller has requested that the cost be increased by 4% every year due to inflation and fuel costs. 
What type of contract should the project manager use?   

Firm fixed price
Fixed-price incentive fee
Fixed-price economic price adjustment
Cost plus fixed fee

Ans:Fixed-price economic price adjustment
    A fixed-price economic price adjustment contract is used to adjust the fixed costs over the life of the 
    contract due to economic conditions such as inflation.


Note:
    Firm Fixed Price (FFP):
        This is a type of contract where the price is set and does not change regardless of the project's actual costs. 
        The seller bears the risk of cost overruns but benefits from any cost savings.

    Fixed-Price Incentive Fee (FPIF):
        In this type of contract, the seller is offered an incentive based on achieving specific performance targets, 
        usually related to cost, schedule, or technical performance. It offers more flexibility than a firm fixed-price contract.

    Fixed-Price Economic Price Adjustment (FP-EPA):
        This contract type provides flexibility for long-term contracts by allowing price adjustments based on economic conditions, 
        such as inflation or changes in commodity prices. The base price is fixed, but it can be adjusted due to economic changes.

    Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF):
        In this contract, the buyer agrees to pay the seller for the actual costs incurred, plus an additional fixed fee. 
        The fee remains constant regardless of the seller's performance, providing little incentive to control costs.




Question 4:
As the project manager is getting ready to send out the request for proposals for the project, he contacts the 
PMO for a list of properly vetted sellers. (পরীক্ষিত বিক্রেতারা)
What is the name of this list? 

Qualified seller list
Prequalified seller list
Preapproved seller list
Approved seller list

Ans:Preapproved seller list
    A preapproved seller list is a list of vendors that have been properly vetted(পরীক্ষিত) by the organization 
    and can be used as potential sellers on a project. 
    All other choices are made-up terms.





Question 5:
The project manager and the team have come up with a few different criteria they will use when selecting a seller. 
The criteria include costs, qualifications, licenses, and financial stability of the seller. What best describes these criteria?  

Procurement documents
Agreements
Request for proposal
Source selection criteria

ans:Source selection criteria
    Source selection criteria are used to evaluate the sellers and can include things such as 
    costs, delivery dates, experience, financial stability, and management experience.



Question 6:
The project team has determined they will use an outside consultant to configure the network routers on the network upgrade project. 
They’re not sure what type of configuration they should put in the routers or how it should be done. 
They will depend on the expertise of the consultant. They would also like to keep the risks as low as possible. 
What contract best fits this project?  

Firm fixed price
Time and material
Cost plus fixed fee
Cost plus incentive

Ans:Time and material
    Although the question states that they would like to keep risks low, and a time and material contract has the highest risk, 
    the project team does not have a detailed project scope. 
    Without a detailed project scope, you cannot use firm fixed-price or even cost-reimbursable contracts, 
    such as cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts.


Note:
    Firm Fixed Price (FFP):
        A contract with a set price that doesn’t change regardless of project costs. The seller assumes the risk for cost overruns.

    Time and Material (T&M):
        The buyer pays for both the time spent on the work and the materials used. It's a flexible contract, often used 
        when scope isn’t clearly defined.

    Cost Plus Fixed Fee (CPFF):
        The buyer reimburses the seller for costs plus a fixed fee. The fee is constant regardless of performance.

    Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF):
        The buyer reimburses costs and offers an incentive based on achieving specific performance targets. It provides some control over costs.



Question 7:
While working on the office renovation project, the project manager has received multiple bids from different vendors. 
What the project manager thought would be a cost-effective contract turned out to be very expensive. 
The project manager then hires a professional estimator to determine what the contract should cost. 
What is the project manager looking for?  

Outside estimate
Building cost estimate
Independent cost estimate
PMO

Ans:Independent cost estimate
    An independent cost estimate is generally made by hiring an outside professional estimator to provide a benchmark 
    to determine whether the bids from a seller are adequate for the project.


Note:
    Outside Estimate:
        Not a standard term in project management, but it may refer to cost estimates obtained from external sources or consultants.

    Building Cost Estimate:
        An estimate focused specifically on the costs associated with construction or building projects.

    Independent Cost Estimate (ICE):
        A third-party estimate of project costs, often used as a benchmark to compare with vendor proposals during procurement.

    PMO (Project Management Office):
        An organizational unit that standardizes project management practices, provides governance, and supports project managers.





Question 8:
While preparing different documents to procure work for the project, the project manager creates the procurement 
statement of work and the procurement management plan. What is the difference between the two documents?   

The procurement management plan documents what components of the project will be procured, 
    while the procurement statement of work documents how to manage the procurement processes.

The procurement management plan documents how to manage procurement processes, 
    while the procurement statement of work documents what components of the project will be procured.

There is no difference between the documents.

The procurement statement of work is part of the procurement management plan.

Ans:2NO
    The procurement management plan is part of the project management plan, while the procurement 
    statement of work is a project document. 

    The procurement management plan contains the activities necessary to conduct the procurement processes. 
    The procurement statement of work outlines what components of the project will be obtained from an outside source.



Question 9:
The project manager and the team have determined that they will procure the installation and configuration of the telephone systems 
for the new computer network. They have determined that the type of agreement they will use is a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract. 
What project document will specify the type of contract that will be used?   

Procurement management plan
Procurement strategy
Statement of work
Bid documents

Ans:Procurement strategy
    The procurement strategy will outline how the procured section of the project should be delivered. 
    It will also outline the contract types and procurement phases.

Note:
    Procurement Management Plan
        Definition: A document that outlines the procurement strategy, requirements, and processes for a project.
        Purpose: Provides a framework for effective procurement management.

    Procurement Strategy
        Definition: The approach that will be used to acquire goods or services.
        Examples: Competitive bidding, sole-source procurement, negotiation.

    Statement of Work (SOW)
        Definition: A document that describes the work to be performed, deliverables, and acceptance criteria.
        Purpose: Provides a clear understanding of the requirements for potential suppliers.

    Bid Documents
        Definition: The documents that potential suppliers use to submit proposals for a project.
        Examples: Request for proposal (RFP), request for quote (RFQ), request for bid (RFB).

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Procurement Management Plan: Defines the overall procurement approach.
    Procurement Strategy: Outlines the specific method for acquiring goods or services.
    Statement of Work: Clearly defines the requirements for the procurement.
    Bid Documents: Provide information to potential suppliers so they can submit proposals.




Question 10:
The project manager has met with over six different sellers and has negotiated with them. 
Finally, he has selected one of the sellers and awarded the contract. What process group are these activities part of?   

Planning
Executing
Monitoring and controlling
Closing

Ans:Executing
    The process the project manager is currently engaged in is conduct procurement, which will result in selecting a 
    seller and awarding a contract. This process is part of the executing process group.




Question 11:
The project manager is set to start the process of conduct procurement. 
What should the project manager  have received before starting this process?   

Procurement management plan
Bid documents
Procurement statement of work
Seller proposals

Ans:Seller proposals
    The seller proposals should be acquired before the project manager can negotiate and select the seller. 
    All other choices are documents created by the project manager and the project team.

Note:
    Procurement Management Plan
        Definition: A document that outlines the procurement strategy, requirements, and processes for a project.
        Purpose: Provides a framework for effective procurement management.

    Bid Documents
        Definition: The documents that potential suppliers use to submit proposals for a project.
        Examples: Request for proposal (RFP), request for quote (RFQ), request for bid (RFB).

    Procurement Statement of Work
        Definition: A document that describes the work to be performed, deliverables, and acceptance criteria for a procurement.
        Purpose: Provides a clear understanding of the requirements for potential suppliers.

    Seller Proposals
        Definition: Responses from potential suppliers to bid documents, outlining their proposed solutions, pricing, and terms and conditions

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Procurement Management Plan: Defines the overall procurement approach.
    Bid Documents: Provide information to potential suppliers.
    Procurement Statement of Work: Clearly defines the requirements for the procurement.
    Seller Proposals: Responses from potential suppliers that are evaluated to select the best vendor.




Question 12:
While working on a large government contract to construct a bridge, the project 
manager determines that meeting individual sellers will take an extreme amount of time. 
What can the project manager do to give out information about the project to multiple sellers in a time-effective manner?   


Advertising
Bid reviews
Proposal evaluation techniques
Vendor conferences

Ans:Vendor conferences
    Vendor conferences, also known as bidder conferences, are meetings between the buyer and prospective sellers prior to 
    proposal submission.



Question 13:
The project manager has selected a seller to work on a contract that requires insurance and performance bonds. 
The insurance and performance bonds must be of a certain amount in order for the seller to meet the buyer’s compliance requirements. 
Where should the project manager include the insurance and performance bonds?  

Procurement statement of work
Procurement management plan
Agreement
Request for proposal

Ans:Agreement
    An agreement can contain elements such as pricing and payment terms, inspections, warranties, incentives and penalties, and 
    insurance and performance bonds.




Question 14:
After being awarded the contract, the seller has begun to do the work listed in the contract. 
The project manager has also started to inspect the work to ensure that it is getting done according to the contract. 
What process best describes these activities?     

Monitor procurement
Managed procurement
Control procurement
Close procurement

Ans:Control procurement 
    Control procurement is part of the monitoring and controlling process groups in which both the buyer and seller meet the 
    requirements outlined in the contract.

Note:
    Monitor Procurement
        Definition: The process of tracking and monitoring the performance of suppliers and contracts.
        Purpose: To ensure that suppliers are meeting their obligations and that the project is receiving the goods and services it needs.

    Managed Procurement
        Definition: The overall process of managing procurement activities, from planning to contract closure.
        Purpose: To ensure that procurement is conducted effectively and efficiently.

    Control Procurement
        Definition: The process of ensuring that contracts are executed in accordance with their terms and conditions.
        Purpose: To prevent contract disputes and ensure that the project receives the goods and services it needs.

    Close Procurement
        Definition: The process of formally closing out contracts with suppliers.
        Purpose: To ensure that all contractual obligations have been fulfilled and to document the completion of the procurement process.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Monitor Procurement: Tracks the performance of suppliers and contracts.
    Managed Procurement: The overall process of managing procurement activities.
    Control Procurement: Ensures that contracts are executed correctly.
    Close Procurement: Formally closes out contracts with suppliers.




Question 15:
While working on a lengthy contract, the seller decides to complete more work than was listed in the contract to ensure the 
quality of the work. The seller then submits an invoice for additional work. 
The project manager disagrees with how much extra the seller is charging for the additional work. 
What should the project manager do next?   

Submit the invoice to claims administration and negotiate a settlement
Inform the seller they will not be paid due to the contract
Inform the seller they will be paid due to the quality of the work
Submit a change request for additional funds

Ans:Submit the invoice to claims administration and negotiate a settlement
    A claim is a contested charge that occurs when a seller does additional work that is not listed in a contract. 
    The best way to resolve a claim is to negotiate a settlement.



Question 16:
After meeting with several sellers, a project manager feels that the best contract for the project would 
be one in which the project team purchases all of the materials to redesign the network and pays the seller a flat fee. 
What contract would best fit this scenario?   

Cost reimbursable
Fixed price
Time and material
Fixed price with materials

Ans:Cost-reimbursable 
    A cost-reimbursable contract has two subtypes, cost-plus-fixed-fee and cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts. 
    The contract described in the question is a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract, in which the project team will purchase all 
    the project materials and then pay the seller a flat fee for their profits.

Note:
    methodology to describe different payment arrangements between a buyer and a seller.

    Cost Reimbursable
        Payment: Buyer reimburses seller for all allowable costs plus a fee.
        Risk: Seller bears the risk of cost overruns.
        Suitable for: Complex projects with uncertain scope or requirements.

    Fixed Price
        Payment: Seller receives a fixed price for the project.
        Risk: Seller bears the risk of cost overruns.
        Suitable for: Projects with well-defined scope and requirements.

    Time and Material
        Payment: Buyer pays for seller's labor and materials on an hourly or daily basis.
        Risk: Neither party bears the risk of cost overruns.
        Suitable for: Projects with uncertain scope or requirements, where flexibility is needed.

    Fixed Price with Materials
        Payment: Similar to fixed price, but seller also provides materials at a fixed price.
        Risk: Seller bears the risk of cost overruns for both labor and materials.
        Suitable for: Projects where seller has control over both labor and materials.

    Choosing the right contract type depends on:
        Project complexity
        Risk allocation
        Level of control
        Urgency






Question 17:
The procurement is now completed and the seller has completed all the work in the contract. 
Who should approve all of the deliverables prior to closure of the procurement?   

Project manager
Project team
Project sponsor
Company management

ans:Project manager
    The project manager should approve all deliverables prior to the closure of procurement. 
    It should be closed with a formal written notice to the seller that all work has been completed.





Question 18:
When negotiating a contract between a buyer and seller, what should the project manager look for in terms of pricing?  

A price that is good for the buyer
A price that is good for the seller
A fair price between the buyer and the seller
A fixed-price contract

Ans:A fair price between the buyer and the seller
    When negotiating a contract, the project manager should find a fair price between the buyer and seller. 
    Never try to negotiate a one-sided contract that is only good for one party. That will generally lead to conflicts and even 
    low-quality work.



Question 19:
While developing a large building complex, the project manager has documented seven different phases the seller will need to complete. 
In what document should the project manager include the procurement phases?   

Procurement management plan
Procurement statement of work
Bid documents
Procurement strategy

Ans:Procurement strategy
    The procurement strategy documents delivery methods, types of agreements, and the procurement phases of the project.



Question 20:
The project sponsor is very concerned about the quality of the project work. 
He has asked the project manager to ensure high performance and quality from vendors; if not, 
the customers may request refunds on the product. 
Where should the project manager include the desired quantity levels and performance for the outsourced section of the project?  

Procurement management plan
Procurement statement of work
Bid documents
Procurement strategy

Ans:Procurement statement of work 
    The procurement statement of work outlines what, from the scope baseline, will be outsourced. 
    It also contains information such as specifications, desired quality, and quality levels.

Note:
    Procurement Management Plan
        Definition: A document that outlines the procurement strategy, requirements, and processes for a project.
        Purpose: Provides a framework for effective procurement management.

    Procurement Statement of Work
        Definition: A document that describes the work to be performed, deliverables, and acceptance criteria for a procurement.
        Purpose: Provides a clear understanding of the requirements for potential suppliers.

    Bid Documents
        Definition: The documents that potential suppliers use to submit proposals for a project.
        Examples: Request for proposal (RFP), request for quote (RFQ), request for bid (RFB).

    Procurement Strategy
        Definition: The approach that will be used to acquire goods or services.
        Examples: Competitive bidding, sole-source procurement, negotiation.

How these concepts relate within PMP:
    Procurement Management Plan: Defines the overall procurement approach.
    Procurement Statement of Work: Clearly defines the requirements for the procurement.
    Bid Documents: Provide information to potential suppliers.
    Procurement Strategy: Outlines the specific method for acquiring goods or services.








Quiz 11: Stakeholders Management Quiz
==============================================
Question 1:
The project manager has begun to identify the stakeholders for the network redesign project. 
One person is very vocal about the effects of the project on his role in the organization. 
The person feels he will lose his job once the project is complete. Is this person a stakeholder? 

Yes, because the person is impacted by the project
Yes, because the person will gain a new role in the organization
No, because the person will not be with the company after the project is done
No, because the person is not part of the project team
    
Ans:Yes, because the person is impacted by the project
    Anyone who is positively or negatively impacted by the project is considered a stakeholder.



Question 2:
The project manager of a large multinational project knows that stakeholder engagement will be key to a successful project. 
What should the project manager do to ensure all stakeholders are engaged?   

Identify the stakeholders early
Document stakeholder requirements early
Communicate continuously
Identify risk early

Ans:Communicate continuously
    Continuous communication is the main aspect of stakeholder engagement. 
    Continuous communication will lead to early identification of stakeholders and understanding how to engage them.



Question 3:
The project manager is identifying stakeholders on the project when he finds a stakeholder that is 
part of the company executive board. How should the project manager classify this stakeholder?

Downward
Upward
Outward
Senior

Ans:Upward
    The upward classification is used for stakeholders that are senior to the project, such as senior management.


Note:
    Downward Communication:
        Information flows from higher levels (e.g., managers) down to lower levels (e.g., team members).

    Upward Communication:
        Information flows from lower levels (e.g., team members) up to higher levels (e.g., managers or stakeholders).

    Outward Communication:
        Information is shared with external stakeholders, such as clients, vendors, or regulatory bodies.

    Senior:
        Refers to higher-ranking individuals or stakeholders, often involved in strategic decisions.




Question 4:
The project manager has decided to classify the stakeholders based on their power level and influence on the project. 
What model does this best describe?  

Stakeholder cube model
Stakeholder power grid model
Salience model
Influence model

Ans:Salience model 
    The salience model is used to describe stakeholders based on their power level, influence, urgency, or legitimacy.

Note:
    Stakeholder Cube Model:
        A three-dimensional model used to assess stakeholders based on their power, interest, and attitude towards the project. 
        It provides a comprehensive view of stakeholder engagement.

    Stakeholder Power/Interest Grid Model:
        This model categorizes stakeholders based on their power and interest in the project, 
        helping to prioritize and manage stakeholder relationships.
        
    Salience Model:
        This model assesses stakeholders based on three factors: power, legitimacy, and urgency. 
        It helps identify which stakeholders deserve the most attention.

    Influence Model:
        A general model that focuses on stakeholders' influence over the project, often including how they affect decision-making and outcomes.




Question 5:
Where should the project manager include the organization position and role of the project stakeholders?   

Requirements documentation
Stakeholder list
Stakeholder register
Stakeholder engagement plan

Ans:Stakeholder register
    The stakeholder register documents who the project stakeholders are, including their contact information, '
    role, position, influence, and expectations.




Question 6:
The project manager has created a list of the stakeholders and their current engagement in the project. 
The project manager would like to document his expectations for the stakeholders’ engagement levels when the project is executed. 
What tool or technique can help the project manager with this task?   

Stakeholder register diagram
Stakeholder engagement assessment matrix
Stakeholder influence model
Stakeholder matrix

Ans:Stakeholder engagement assessment matrix
    The stakeholder engagement assessment matrix shows a comparison between the current and desired engagement levels of stakeholders.


Note:
    Stakeholder Register Diagram: A visual representation of key stakeholders, their roles, and their level of interest and influence.
    Engagement Assessment Matrix: Prioritizes stakeholder engagement based on interest and influence.
    Influence Model: Analyzes stakeholder power and interest to determine potential impact.
    Stakeholder Matrix: A general term for various tools used to analyze and manage stakeholder relationships.



Question 7:
While working on the stakeholder engagement plan, the project manager identifies a stakeholder who does not 
know the project will impact them. How should the project manager classify this stakeholder’s engagement level? 

Hidden
Resistant
Neutral
Unaware

Ans:Unaware
    The stakeholder is unware of the project and potential impacts.

Note:
    Hidden: Stakeholders who are unaware of the project or its potential impact.

    Resistant: Stakeholders who oppose the project or specific aspects of it.

    Neutral: Stakeholders who are neither supportive nor resistant to the project.

    Unaware: Stakeholders who are unaware of the project or its potential impact.





Question 8:
What document will be created once the stakeholder management process has been completed?  

Stakeholder management plan
Stakeholder engagement plan
Communication management plan
Stakeholder register

Ans:Stakeholder engagement plan
    The stakeholder management process is conducted during planning to plan stakeholder engagement. 
    The output is the stakeholder engagement plan.

Note:
    Stakeholder Management Plan
    Purpose: Outlines strategies to identify, analyze, and engage stakeholders throughout the project lifecycle.
    Key Elements:
        Stakeholder identification
        Stakeholder analysis (e.g., power-interest grid)
        Stakeholder engagement approach
        Communication plan

    Stakeholder Engagement Plan
    Purpose: Specifies the specific actions and activities to engage stakeholders effectively.
    Key Elements:
        Engagement strategies (e.g., communication methods, meeting frequency)
        Roles and responsibilities
        Performance metrics

    Communication Management Plan
    Purpose: Defines how information will be collected, created, distributed, and stored.
    Key Elements:
        Communication methods (e.g., email, meetings, reports)
        Communication channels
        Communication frequency
        Stakeholder information needs

    Stakeholder Register
    Purpose: A centralized repository of information about stakeholders.
    Key Elements:
        Stakeholder name
        Role or title
        Interest level
        Influence level
        Potential impact
        Communication preferences
        Engagement level
        Required information

Relationship between these components:
    The Stakeholder Register is the foundation for the other plans.
    The Stakeholder Management Plan provides the overall strategy for managing stakeholders.
    The Stakeholder Engagement Plan details specific actions to engage stakeholders based on their analysis.
    The Communication Management Plan ensures effective communication with stakeholders as outlined in the other plans.





Question 9:
During which process will the project manager engage the stakeholders on the project?   

Manage stakeholder engagement
Monitor stakeholder engagement
Control stakeholder engagement
Plan stakeholder engagement

Ans:Manage stakeholder engagement
    In the executing process of manage stakeholders engagement, the project manager will be communicating with 
    the stakeholders on the project to meet their expectations.

Note:
    1.Plan Stakeholder Engagement
    Purpose: Defines strategies to identify, analyze, and engage stakeholders.
    Key activities:
        Identify stakeholders
        Analyze stakeholder expectations and interests
        Develop a stakeholder engagement plan

    2. Manage Stakeholder Engagement
    Purpose: Execute the stakeholder engagement plan and address issues as they arise.
    Key activities:
        Communicate with stakeholders
        Manage stakeholder expectations
        Address stakeholder concerns and issues
        Facilitate stakeholder involvement

    3. Monitor Stakeholder Engagement
    Purpose: Track the effectiveness of stakeholder engagement activities.
    Key activities:
        Collect feedback from stakeholders
        Assess stakeholder satisfaction
        Identify areas for improvement

    4. Control Stakeholder Engagement
    Purpose: Make necessary adjustments to the stakeholder engagement plan to ensure alignment with project objectives.
    Key activities:
        Analyze stakeholder engagement data
        Identify and address risks
        Update the stakeholder engagement plan as needed

Key considerations for stakeholder engagement:
    Tailored approach: The approach to stakeholder engagement should be tailored to the specific needs and expectations of each stakeholder.
    Proactive communication: Effective communication is essential for maintaining positive relationships with stakeholders.
    Continuous monitoring: Stakeholder engagement should be monitored and adjusted throughout the project lifecycle.
    Risk management: Identifying and addressing potential risks related to stakeholder engagement is crucial.




Question 10:
What is the main benefit of keeping the stakeholders engaged during the execution of the project?     

To identify the stakeholders
To resolve issues
To create a stakeholder engagement plan
To increase stakeholders support and reduce resistance

Ans:To increase stakeholders support and reduce resistance
    The manage stakeholders engagement process is done during execution, and its main benefit is to increase support 
    and minimize resistance from stakeholders.





Question 11:
During which stakeholder management process will the project manager review the stakeholder engagement 
plan and the actual stakeholders’ engagement to determine if the plan is meeting the project needs? 

Manage stakeholder engagement
Control stakeholder engagement
Monitor stakeholder engagement
Plan stakeholder engagement

Ans:Monitor stakeholder engagement
    During the process of monitor stakeholders engagement, the project manager will monitor project stakeholder 
    relationships and tailor strategies for engaging stakeholders through modification of engagement strategies and plans.






Question 12:
While conducting the process of monitor stakeholders engagement, the project manager reviews the project management 
plan and would like to modify it to increase the frequency of meetings with senior management. What should the project manager do next? 

Create a change request
Modify the plan
Inform the change control board
Inform the project sponsor

Ans:Create a change request
    Any changes to the project management plan require an approved change request.


Question 13:
When the project is executed, what plan will the project manager use along with the stakeholder engagement 
plan to engage all stakeholders on the project?   

Scope management plan
Requirements management plan
Communication management plan
Cost management plan

Ans:Communication management plan
    The communication management plan is used along with the stakeholder management plan during the process of 
    manage stakeholders engagement to keep the stakeholders engaged.




Question 14:
When should the project manager conduct the process of identifying stakeholders? 

Only when the project initiates
Once if needed on the project
Throughout the project life cycle
Only when new stakeholders are added to the project

Ans:Throughout the project life cycle
    The process of identify stakeholders should be done throughout the project, not just when it initiates.




Question 15:
When communicating with stakeholders, what can the project manager use to ensure the stakeholders receive the 
information and understand it?   

Active listening
Presentation skills
Soft skills
Feedback

Ans:Feedback
    Feedback is used to ensure that the information provided to stakeholders is received and understood.








Quiz 12: Agile Quiz
====================================================
Question 1:
Which of the following statements about agile projects is false?   

Agile projects welcome changes
Agile projects have a very strict change management process
Agile projects prefer collocation
Agile projects depend on lots of stakeholder engagement

Ans:Agile projects have a very strict change management process
    Agile projects welcome changes throughout the project. A very strict change process would suppress changes on the project.



Question 2:
Who on an agile project is responsible for prioritizing the product backlog?  

Agile project manager
Team
Product owner
Senior Management

Ans:Product owner
    The product owner is responsible for prioritizing the product backlog. The product owner represents the customers.



Question 3:
The team has completed the sprint planning meeting. What will be the output of that meeting? 

Product backlog
User stories
Usable product
Sprint backlog

Ans:  Sprint backlog
    The sprint backlog is the output of the sprint planning meeting.



Question 4:
The agile project team is considered:  

Dependent on the project manager
Self-Directing
Dependent on the customer
Large

Ans:Self-Directing
    The team is considered self-directing on an agile project.



Question 5:
The team is currently in a meeting discussing what went wrong and right during the sprint. What is the name of this meeting?  

Sprint Review
Daily stand up meeting
Sprint
Retrospective

Ans:Retrospective
    The retrospective is a meeting conducted at the end of the sprint to reflect on what the team did correctly and what 
    they did wrong and how to improve the next sprint.




Question 6:
What do you call multiple sprints that result in a shippable product?   

Scrum
Release
Multi-Sprint
Product

Ans:Release
    A release is a series of sprints (aka scrum) that results in a product the customers can start using.




Question 7:
What is the difference between a traditional project scope and an agile project scope?   

Traditional and agile project scopes both follow a strict change management process.
Only a traditional project scope follows a strict change management process.
Only an agile project scope follows a strict change management process.
Traditional and agile project scopes both allow for adding features at any point.

Ans:Only a traditional project scope follows a strict change management process.
    Only a traditional project follows a strict change management process, while agile projects welcome changes throughout the project.



Question 8:
What does a daily stand-up meeting cover?   

Only what the team did yesterday
What the team did yesterday and if they face any obstacles
Only what obstacles they currently face
What they did yesterday, any obstacles they face and what they plan to do today

Ans:What they did yesterday, any obstacles they face and what they plan to do today
    A daily stand-up meeting answers 3 questions: what they did yesterday, any obstacles they face, and what they plan to do today



Question 9:
When is customer review work done on an agile project?   

Sprint planning meeting
Sprint review meeting
Daily stand-up meeting
Sprint Retrospective

Ans:Sprint review meeting
    During a sprint review meeting, the customers will review the work completed in the sprint and give the team their feedback.


Note:
    Sprint Planning Meeting: This meeting is held at the beginning of each sprint to define the sprint goals, 
        select tasks from the product backlog, and create a sprint backlog.

    Sprint Review Meeting: This meeting occurs at the end of each sprint to review the completed work, gather feedback 
        from stakeholders, and adjust the product backlog if necessary.

    Daily Stand-up Meeting: A short daily meeting where team members discuss their progress, identify any impediments, 
        and plan for the day ahead.

    Sprint Retrospective: A meeting held at the end of each sprint to reflect on the team's performance, 
        identify areas for improvement, and make adjustments for future sprints.



Question 10:
What tool would an agile team prefer?   

Latest in remote meeting technology
Whiteboard and projector
Latest in remote meeting and e-mail technology
Whiteboard and marker

Ans:Whiteboard and marker
    Agile teams prefer “low-tech high-touch.” This means more time with face-to-face conversions and physical interactions.



Question 11:
Agile projects aim to deliver value:

As late as possible
As early as possible
As soon as the project starts
As soon as the stakeholders would accept the deliverable

Ans:As early as possible
    Agile projects aim to deliver value early and often through incremental releases.




Question 12:
What is critical on an agile project for it to be successful?

Being a servant leader
Stakeholder satisfaction
Very thorough change control process
Having a well-defined project management plan

Ans:Stakeholders Satisfiection
    On an agile project, the aim is to have as much stakeholder engagement as possible which will lead to more satisfied stakeholders.




Question 13:
One of the values of managing an agile project is to reduce waste. Which of the following choices is not considered waste?

Defects
Extra processes
Waiting
Completed work

Ans:Completed work 
    Completed work is not considered waste, as it is work that will be given to the stakeholders to be used.
    All other choices are considered waste.



Question 14:
Funding on agile projects differs from traditional projects because agile projects are:

Funded incrementally
Funded at the end
Funded at the beginning
Funded by external stakeholders

Ans:Funded incrementally
    Since agile projects deliver the product in increments, it is funded in increments. 
    Traditional projects are generally funded at the beginning.




Question 15:
Which of the following is considered anti-value(মূল্য বিরোধী)?

Risk
Completed work
Opportunities
Demand

Ans:Risk
    Risk is considered anti-value. Risk represents threats that has the potential to reduce the value on a project, 
    such as having features failing.




Question 16:
While trying to engage the stakeholders on a project to prioritize the product backlog, 
the agile project manager has given the stakeholders fake money and told them to place a dollar value on the features 
based on their perception of value for that feature. What technique is this?

100-Dollar method
Money voting
Money prioritization
Monopoly money

Ans:
    Monopoly money is a prioritization technique where everyone is given equal monopoly money which they then distribute to 
    the features based on value. All other choices are made-up.



Question 17:
What prioritization technique will have stakeholders categorize the features based on satisfiers and dissatisfiers?

Kano analysis
Dot Voting
Simple scheme
MoSCow

Ans:Kano analysis
    Kano analysis will help to understand the customer’s level of satisfaction. They will classify the features based on 
    their level of satisfaction such as the exciter’s, satisfiers, dissatisfiers, and indifferent.


Note:
    These are all tools or methods used in project management and decision-making:
    
    Kano Analysis:
        Purpose: Determines the relationship between product attributes and customer satisfaction.
        How it works: Categorizes attributes into three categories: must-haves (expected), delighters (unexpected),
        and performance attributes (linear relationship with satisfaction).

    Dot Voting:
        Purpose: A simple and efficient way to prioritize ideas or options in a group setting.
        How it works: Participants are given a number of dots (e.g., 5) to distribute among various options. 
        The option with the most dots is considered the highest priority.

    Simple Scheme:
        Purpose: A decision-making framework that considers the importance and urgency of tasks or projects.
        How it works: Tasks are categorized into four quadrants based on their importance and urgency: 
        Do, Delegate, Delay, and Delete.

    MoSCow:
        Purpose: A prioritization technique that stands for Must Have, Should Have, Could Have, and Won't Have.
        How it works: Projects or features are categorized based on their level of importance to achieving project goals.







Question 18:
The software development team has completed a small module of the accounting software. 
They have released it to the customers. The module has very few features but is useful to the customers. 
This module represents:

Fully functional product
Minimum viable product
Small usable product
Should not have been released

Ans:Minimum viable product
    Agile promotes the use of a minimal viable product. It refers to a set of functionalities that is complete to be useful but 
    small enough not to be an entire project.

Note:
    Fully Functional Product: Complete and ready for market.
    MVP: Basic version used for validation.
    SUP: Functional but may have limitations.
    Should Not Have Been Released: Product with significant flaws.



Question 19:
The project team has decided to implement Kanban. What should the team be most concerned about when using the Kanban methodology?

Limit the work in progress
Try to keep it on a computer
Ensure everyone gets the updated
Ensure only authorized updates

Ans:Limit the work in progress
    When using Kanban, the project team should ensure that they limit the work in progress on the Kanban board.




Question 20:
The customer has described the layout in detail to the project team. 
The project team then does a mockup of the screen and shows the customer. 
The customer then expresses their concern, that the mockup looks nothing like how they described it. 
What does this scenario describe?

Reluctance of the team to listen
Team disagreements with customer
Gulf of evaluation
Progressive elaboration

Ans:Gulf of evaluation
    The gulf of evaluation occurs when what one person intends to describe is different 
    from how another person interprets the description.


Note:
    Reluctance: Team members may resist feedback or new ideas.
    Disagreements: Conflicts between team and customer.
    Gulf: Users may not understand the product.
    Progressive: Requirements evolve throughout the project.







Quiz 13: Quiz (Section 10: Agile Stakeholder Management)
=========================================================
Question 1:
The agile project manager has just been assigned a new project. What should the project manager do first when 
trying to engage the stakeholders?

Understand your communication preferences
Understand what communication technologies are available
Identify the stakeholders
Have a stakeholder's meeting

Ans:Identify the stakeholders
    The first step in managing stakeholders is to identify them. It’s only then will the project manager be able to meet 
    with them and understand their communication requirements.




Question 2:
The agile project manager is trying to teach the project team members about agile methods. 
What is a major concern that the project manager should have concerning team members leanring agile?

Resistant (প্রতিরোধ) to agile methods
Communicating
Engagement
Use of high-tech low touch tools

Ans:Resistant to agile methods
    Concerns about agile often include the project team being resistant to agile methods.



Question 3:
Stakeholder engagement is one of the keys to success on an agile project. 
What can the agile project manager do to keep them engaged throughout the project?

Short iterations and releases with the most valuable features
Long iterations and releases with little features
Long iterations and releases with the most valuable features
Short iterations and releases every six months

Ans:Short iterations and releases with the most valuable features
    Short iterations and releases with the most valuable features will keep stakeholders consistently involved in 
    the project by having them in the Sprint review meeting and the release planning.




Question 4:
What can the agile project manager use in the agile charter as a brief way to describe the goals of the project?

Project description
Iteration description
Deliverable description
Project tweet

Ans:Project tweet
    The project tweet will describe the project goal in 140 characters or less.




Question 5:
During a meeting with the agile project team the project manager becomes concerned that there are conflicts and 
disagreements in the communications between the team and the customers. 
What communication method should the project manager suggest?

More frequent phone conversations
More frequent face-to-face conversations
More frequent email conversations to keep a written track of the conversation
More frequent paper conversation to keep the track of the written conversation

Ans:More frequent face-to-face conversations
    In agile, face-to-face conversation is preferred for being more effective and engaging.





Question 6:
During a brainstorming session, Allison has finished explaining her idea and passes a token to the next in line, 
Brandon, who begins with his thoughts. What brainstorming method is this?

Quiet writing
Round Robin
Free-for-all
Token passing

Ans:Round Robin
    Round Robin brainstorming is done when you pass a token around to ensure everyone will have a chance to speak

Note:
    Quiet Writing
        Definition: A technique where participants individually write down their thoughts on a topic before sharing them with the group.
        Purpose: To encourage everyone to contribute and avoid the dominance of certain individuals.

    Round Robin
        Definition: A method where participants take turns sharing their thoughts or ideas, one at a time.
        Purpose: To ensure everyone has an equal opportunity to participate and to maintain a structured flow of discussion.

    Free-for-All
        Definition: A completely unstructured discussion where anyone can speak at any time.
        Purpose: To generate a wide range of ideas and encourage spontaneous contributions.

    Token Passing
        Definition: A method where a physical object (e.g., a ball or a token) is passed around the group, 
        and only the person holding the token is allowed to speak.
        Purpose: To ensure everyone has a chance to contribute and to prevent interruptions or overlapping conversations.






Question 7:
The agile project manager has met one of the key stakeholders to understand how that stakeholder would define the success of the release. 
What collaboration game can best be played?

Speedboat
Prune the product tree
Information success gathered
Remembered the future

Ans:Remembered the future 
    Remembered the future is a collaboration game that asks stakeholders to imagine that an upcoming release was successful 
    and to look back on what made it a success. This will allow stakeholders to define the success criteria for the release.

Note:
    Speedboat:
        Definition: A metaphor used to describe the process of prioritizing product features and focusing on the most essential ones.
        Concept: The speedboat represents the product, and the features are like cargo. 
        To move quickly and efficiently, you must eliminate unnecessary cargo (features) that slow you down.

    Prune the Product Tree:
        Definition: A strategy for simplifying and streamlining a product's features and functionalities.
        Concept: Similar to pruning a tree, this involves removing unnecessary or redundant elements to 
        improve the overall health and efficiency of the product.


    Information Success Gathered:
        Definition: The process of collecting and analyzing data to measure the effectiveness and impact of a product or feature.
        Key metrics:
            User engagement
            Customer satisfaction
            Product adoption
            Return on investment (ROI)

    Remembered the Future:
        Definition: A concept that emphasizes the importance of planning for the future and considering 
        long-term implications when making product decisions.
        Key considerations:
            Market trends
            Technological advancements
            Customer needs and preferences
            Competitive landscape





Question 8:
Being an agile project manager requires an individual to be able to understand and influence how others are feeling. 
What critical soft skill will the project manager need to have in order to do this?

Facilitation
Active listening
Negotiation
Emotional intelligence

Ans:Emotional intelligence
    Emotional intelligence is the ability to identify, assess, and influence emotions of ourselves and others around us.

Note:
    Facilitation:
        Definition: The process of guiding a group or team toward a specific goal or outcome.
        Key skills:
        Active listening
        Effective communication
        Conflict resolution
        Problem-solving
        Time management

    Active Listening:
        Definition: A communication technique that involves fully focusing on the speaker, understanding their message, and providing feedback.
        Key elements:
        Maintaining eye contact
        Leaning forward
        Nodding
        Paraphrasing the speaker's message
        Asking clarifying questions

    Negotiation:
        Definition: The process of reaching an agreement through compromise and mutual concession.
        Key strategies:
        BATNA (Best Alternative To a Negotiated Agreement)
        Reservation price
        Anchoring
        Framing
        Bargaining

    Emotional Intelligence:
        Definition: The ability to understand and manage one's own emotions, as well as the emotions of others.
        Key components:
        Self-awareness
        Self-regulation
        Social awareness
        Relationship management




Question 9:
The negotiation between the team members and the outside consultants have broken down and the two sides cannot come to an agreement. 
Which of the following could have led to this?

There was room for give-and-take on both sides
There was no room for give-and-take on both sides
Two team members were willing to give
They allowed everyone to investigate the options and trade-offs

Ans:They allowed everyone to investigate the options and trade-offs
    Good negotiations will allow everyone to investigate the options and trade-offs.
    It’s most effective when interactions between people are positive and there is room for give-and-take.



Question 10:
Two team members have gotten into an argument that has led to a physical altercation between them. 
What is the first step that must be done immediately?

Separate them
Understand what led to this
Have them explain their points of views
Speak to other team members to understand what happened

Ans:Separate them
    When managing team members that have a conflict level of five: world war, the best first step would be to 
    separate them so there is no more physical harm.




Question 11:
The agile manifesto states: "individuals and interactions over..." ?

Processes and tools
Processes and methods
Documentation
Following a plan

Ans:Processes and tools
    The agile manifesto values individuals and interactions over processes and tools.





Question 12:
According to the cost constructive model, the people factor is how many times more costly than tools and processes?

10
11
12
3

Ans:11
    The cost constructive model has the people factor score of 33 and a tools and processes score of three. 
    It scores people 11 times more than tools and processes.





Question 13:
When building an agile project team, it is important for the project manager to ensure the agile team is?

Self-organizing
Staffed with team members with specialized skills
Computer savvy and able to use the latest in technology
Able to communicate through the use of technology


Ans:Self-organizing
    The characteristics of an agile team should be self-organizing and directing while preferring the use of low-tech, high-touch tools. 
    The agile team should also be generalizing specialists that are able to collaborate effectively.





Question 14:
1. Agile project teams should have fewer than __________ members?

5
10
12
14


Ans:12
    Agile project teams should remain small and have fewer than 12 members.




Question 15:
What should the agile project manager implement to ensure that team members are encouraged to experiment with new processes and methods?

A safe place for experiments
A strict change control process for experiments
A team review for experiments
There should be no experiments when a project is executed

Ans:A safe place for experiments
A safe place for experiments will allow project team to try new methods and encourage them to learn new techniques and processes.



Question 16:
What does the Ha mean in the Shu-Ha-Ri Model of Skill Mastery?

Obey the rules
Move away from the rules
Create your own rules
Don't follow the rules

Ans:Move away from the rules
    The Ha in Shu-Ha-Ri Model of Skill Mastery means to be moving away from the rules.



Question 17:
During what level of Tuckman's Ladder should the agile project manager be directing the team?

Forming
Storming
Norming
Performing

Ans:Forming
    During the forming stage the project manager should be directing the team on what should be done on the project.

Note:
    Forming: Initial stage, team members get to know each other.

    Storming: Conflict and resistance arise as team members assert themselves.

    Norming: Team establishes norms, roles, and responsibilities.

    Performing: Team is highly productive, cohesive, and focused on goals.






Question 18:
The agile project manager has noticed a lack of communication among the team members due to the geographical boundaries separating them. 
What would be the best approach for the project manager to take in order to resolve this?

Set up a co-location
Ask team members to restrict the use of telephones
Ask team members to use more virtual meetings
Require the use of Kanban

Ans:Set up a co-location
    One of the best methods to ensure effective communication with team members is to set up a co-location. 
    Although co-locations can be difficult with geographical boundaries that could be set up virtually.




Question 19:
Two team members were having a conversation about how to fix a particular function. One team member has 
overheard this conversation and is able to fix their own function without asking for help. What does this illustrate?

Tacit knowledge
Osmotic communication
Common communication
Low-tech communication

Ans:Osmotic communication
    Osmotic communication occurs when information flows among team members during everyday conversations.


Note:
    Tacit Knowledge:
        Definition: Implicit or unspoken knowledge that is difficult to articulate or transfer.
        Examples:
        Intuition
        Experience
        Skills
        Cultural norms

    Osmotic Communication:
        Definition: A type of informal communication that occurs naturally and unintentionally, often through observation and interaction.
        Examples:
        Body language
        Facial expressions
        Tone of voice
        Workplace culture

    Common Communication:
        Definition: A general term that refers to any form of communication used to exchange information or ideas.
        Examples:
        Verbal communication
        Written communication
        Non-verbal communication
        Digital communication

    Low-Tech Communication:
        Definition: Communication methods that do not rely heavily on technology or electronic devices.
        Examples:
        Face-to-face meetings
        Telephone calls
        Written letters
        Printed materials



Question 20:
One of the key stakeholders on the agile project has asked to be shown what work has been completed on the project.
What agile tool would best display this to the key stakeholder?

Burndown chart
Velocity chart
Burnup chart
Work chart

Ans:Burnup chart 
    Burnup chart will visually display work that has been completed on the project.

Note:
    Burndown Chart:
        Purpose: Visualizes the remaining work in a project over time.
        How it works:
        Starts with the total estimated work for the project.
        Each day or iteration, the completed work is subtracted from the remaining work.
        The chart shows a downward trend as the project progresses.

    Velocity Chart:
        Purpose: Tracks the amount of work a team can consistently complete in a fixed time period.
        How it works:
        Calculates the velocity for each iteration based on the completed work.
        The chart shows the team's average velocity over time.

    Burnup Chart:
        Purpose: Visualizes the total completed work in a project over time.
        How it works:
        Starts at zero and increases as work is completed.
        The chart shows an upward trend as the project progresses.

    Work Chart:
        Purpose: A general term that can refer to any chart or graph used to visualize work-related data.
        Examples:
        Gantt charts
        Kanban boards
        Dependency charts







Quiz 14: Quiz (Section 11: Agile Planning, Problem Resolution and Continuous Improvement)
=============================================================================================

Question 1:
Which of the following drives the need to re-plan agile projects?

Uncertainty
Lack of team understanding
Lack of team commitment
Lack of stakeholder commitment

Ans:Uncertainty
    Due to the uncertainty of the scope on an agile project and constant changes, 
    agile projects will be in a constant state of re-planning.




Question 2:
What agile method would allow stakeholders to write the most valuable features of a particular product?

Estimated
Prioritizing features
Prune the product tree
Design the product box

Ans:Design the product box
    Design the product box is an agile method that would have stakeholders write the most valuable features on the front and the 
    back of a product box.

Note:
    Estimated:
        In Agile, tasks and features are often estimated to determine their relative size and complexity. 
        This information is used to plan sprints and allocate resources effectively.
        Estimation techniques can include story points, hours, or other units of measurement.

    Prioritizing features:
        Once features have been estimated, they are typically prioritized based on their value to the product and the business. 
        This helps ensure that the most important features are developed first.
        Prioritization techniques can include MoSCow (Must Have, Should Have, Could Have, Won't Have) or Weighted Scoring.

    Prune the product tree:
        This term likely refers to the process of reviewing and refining the product backlog, which is a list of 
        all the features and requirements for the product.
        Pruning involves removing or modifying features that are no longer necessary or feasible.

    Design the product box:
        This is a less common term in Agile contexts. It could refer to the physical packaging or the visual design of the product,
        but it's more likely a metaphor for defining the scope and boundaries of the product.
        In Agile, the product vision and roadmap play a similar role in defining the overall direction of the product.



Question 3:
Retrospectives is a time box activity that should take no more than _______ ?

Three hours
Two hours
Five hours
One day

Ans:Two hours
    A retrospective is a time box event that should take about two hours.





Question 4:
What is it called when the time it takes to complete a given task is estimated as if there were no interruptions or unplanned events?

Free time
Clear estimation
Ideal time
Lead time

Ans:Ideal time 
    Ideal time refers to the time it takes to complete a given task assuming zero interruptions or unplanned problems.

Note:
    Free time:
        The time available for unplanned work or unexpected tasks.
        It's a buffer to absorb unforeseen challenges or opportunities.

    Clear estimation:
        Accurate and consistent estimates for tasks and features.
        Helps in effective planning and resource allocation.

    Ideal time:
        The estimated time to complete a task without any interruptions or distractions.
        It's a theoretical benchmark for measuring efficiency.

    Lead time:
        The time it takes for a feature or change to go from conception to delivery.
        It includes development, testing, and deployment.




Question 5:
When decomposing requirements, epics are decomposed into _______ ?

Tasks
Stories
Work
Features

Ans:Features
    When decomposing requirements epics are decomposed into features, features are decomposed into stories, 
    and stories are decomposed into tasks.





Question 6:
When writing a user story, it should contain the user type, need, and ______ ?

Objective
Value
Requirements
Costs

Ans:Value
    The user story should contain the user type, want/need, and the value.



Question 7:
Which of the following is not one of the three C’s about user stories?

Card
Confirmation
Conversation
Conformance

Ans:Conformance
The three C’s of user stories are Card, Conversation, and Confirmation.



Question 8:
In the Fibonacci sequence what comes after the number 5?

13
21
8
7

ans:8
    The Fibonacci sequence is used to assign points to stories as a relative scale. The sequence goes: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21.



Question 9:
What is it called when during a brainstorming session everyone agrees with the consultant that is the highest-paid person in the room?

Bandwagon effect
HIPPO
Groupthink
Normal methods

Ans:HIPPO
    HIPPO (HIghest-Paid Person's Opinion) decision making is when people agree with the highest paid person.

Note:
    Bandwagon Effect: People follow the crowd.
    HIPPO: Boss's opinion rules.
    Groupthink: Everyone agrees without thinking.
    Normal Methods: Traditional ways of doing things.




Question 10:
The project team would like to investigate whether new software can help reduce bugs in a new coding language. 
What should the project team do?

Conduct an iteration
Conduct an architectural spike
Conduct a risk-based spike
Inform the stakeholders

Ans:Conduct risk-based spike
    A risk-based spike is when the team investigates whether a new method, process, or tool will reduce or eliminate risks.

Note:
    Conduct an Iteration:
        Definition: A time-boxed period during which a team works to deliver a specific set of product increments.
        Purpose: To deliver value to the customer and gather feedback for continuous improvement.

    Conduct an Architectural Spike:
        Definition: A technical investigation to explore and evaluate potential design or implementation approaches 
        for a specific feature or component.

    Purpose: To reduce risk, identify technical challenges, and inform decision-making.

    Conduct a Risk-Based Spike:
        Definition: A focused investigation to address a specific risk or uncertainty that could impact the project's success.
        Purpose: To mitigate risks and ensure project viability.

    Inform the Stakeholders:
        Definition: The process of communicating project progress, updates, and key decisions to stakeholders.
        Purpose: To maintain stakeholder alignment, address concerns, and ensure project success.






Question 11:
As an agile project progresses, the cost of incorporating changes into the product will ________ ?


Decrease over time
Increase over time
Will not change over time
Will be dependent on the project team over time

Ans:Increase over time
    On agile projects, the cost of changes increases over time.



Question 12:
After six iterations there is a big backlog of coding work that needs cleanup. What is this often referred to as?

Bad coding practice
Technical debt
Coding debt
Refactoring

Ans:Technical debt
Technical debt is a backlog of work caused by not doing regular cleanup of code.


Note:
    Bad coding practices can lead to various problems, including:

    Technical debt: 
        This refers to the accumulation of code that is difficult to understand, maintain, or modify. 
        It can slow down development and increase the risk of bugs.
    Coding debt: 
        A synonym for technical debt, emphasizing the negative consequences of poor code quality.
    Refactoring: 
        This is the process of restructuring existing code without changing its external behavior. 
        It's used to improve code quality, readability, and maintainability.

    Key points to remember:
        Prevention: Agile practices like code reviews, pair programming, and unit testing can help prevent bad coding practices.
        Addressing debt: Technical debt should be addressed proactively to avoid it from spiraling out of control.
        Refactoring as a continuous process: Refactoring should be incorporated into the development process as a 
        regular activity, not just a one-time fix.




Question 13:
________ time is how long something takes to go through the entire process.

Lead
Cycle
State
Ideal

Ans:Lead
    Lead time is how long something takes to go through the entire process.

Note:
    Lead:
    The time it takes for a feature or change to go from conception to delivery.
    It includes development, testing, and deployment.

    Cycle:
    The time it takes to complete one iteration or sprint in Agile development.
    It typically includes planning, development, testing, and review.

    State:
    The current status of a work item, such as "to do," "in progress," "done," or "blocked."
    Agile tools often use Kanban boards or similar methods to visualize the state of work items.

    Ideal:
    A theoretical benchmark or target value for a metric.
    It's used to measure efficiency and identify areas for improvement.



Question 14:
While working on a complex software development, a team hears back from a customer that delivered module from a 
previous iteration contained bugs. This situation best exemplifies ________?

Errors
Issues
Risks
Escaped defects

Ans:Escaped defects
    Escaped defects are defects that make it to the customers.


Note:
    Errors
        Definition: Mistakes or inaccuracies that occur during the execution of a project activity.
        Examples:
        Incorrect calculations
        Data entry errors
        Omissions
        Impact: Can lead to issues, defects, and rework.

    Issues
        Definition: Problems or obstacles that arise during the execution of a project that may affect its progress, quality, or success.
        Examples:
        Resource constraints
        Scope creep
        Schedule delays
        Impact: Can cause delays, increased costs, and reduced quality.

    Risks
        Definition: Potential events or conditions that could have a negative impact on the project.
        Examples:
        Technological risks
        Market risks
        Resource risks
        Impact: Can lead to issues, delays, and increased costs.
        
    Escaped Defects
        Definition: Defects that are not detected until after the product or service is delivered to the customer.
        Examples:
        Bugs in software
        Quality issues in physical products
        Impact: Can damage the project's reputation, lead to customer dissatisfaction, and require costly rework.





Question 15:
The project team has met with the customers to discuss all of the different risk responses that have been implemented on the project. 
What should the project team do next?

Fund the responses
Congratulate the team members
Request proof of responses in their effectiveness
Adjust the product backlog for risks

Ans:Adjust the product backlog for risks
    Once the risk assessment and response process has been completed, the product backlog should be adjusted to 
    reflect the potential risk on the project.




Question 16:
Over the course of one iteration, the agile project manager has noticed an issue that may affect the product. 
What should the agile project manager do?

Research methods to resolve the issue immediately
Ask the project team for help
Analyze the product to understand the potential impact
Ask the stakeholders to remove that feature

Ans:Ask the project team for help
    On an agile project, problems should be solved by engaging the project team, as their solutions are more practical.



Question 17:
What tool can the agile team use to show a risk's severity over time?

Risk Burnup Chart
Risk Burndown Chart
Risk Severity Chart
Risk Management Chart

Ans:Risk burndown chart 
    A risk burndown chart will show the risk's severity over time.

Note:
    Risk Burnup Chart
        Purpose: Visualizes the cumulative effort or resources invested in risk mitigation activities over time.
        How it works:
        Starts at zero and increases as resources are allocated to address risks.
        The chart shows an upward trend as risks are mitigated.

    Risk Burndown Chart
        Purpose: Tracks the remaining risk exposure or the likelihood of adverse events occurring over time.
        How it works:
        Starts at a baseline level of risk exposure.
        As risks are mitigated, the chart shows a downward trend as the remaining risk exposure decreases.

    Risk Severity Chart
        Purpose: Categorizes and prioritizes risks based on their potential impact and likelihood of occurrence.
        How it works:
        Typically uses a matrix with two axes: severity (impact) and probability.
        Risks are plotted on the chart based on their severity and probability.

    Risk Management Chart
        Purpose: A general term that can refer to any chart or graph used to visualize risk-related data.
        Examples:
        Risk register
        Risk impact matrix
        Risk response matrix



Question 18:
A risk would cost the project approximately $10,000 and the probability of it occurring is 10%. 
What is the expected value of this risk?

$10,000
$100,000
$1,000
$100

aNS:$1,000.
    To calculate the expected monetary value, you must multiply impact X probability. 
    In this scenario it would be $100,000 multiply 10% = $1,000.



Question 19:
What is the cycle time of a feature if it requires 50 points of work and the team can complete 10 points per day?

500 Days
5 Days
50 Days
.5 Days

Ans:
Cycle time is equal to work in progress divided by throughput. In this scenario it would be 50 ÷ 10 = 5 days.




Question 20:
Which of the following would not be a success strategy on an agile project?

Watch and listen
Retain the best talent
Invent rather than research
Get feedback

Ans:Invent rather than research
    Invent rather than research is known to be a failure mode, not a success strategy.





Question 21:
Kaizen is a Japanese word that means _______ ?

Continuous improvement
Quality improvement
Product improvement
People improvement

Ans:Continuous improvement
    Kaizen is a Japanese term meaning continuous improvement. Kaizen emphasizes small, incremental changes over time.






Question 22:
In the agile improvement process what comes after develop?

Learn
Plan
Evaluate
Do


Ans:Evaluate
    The agile improvement process is plan, develop, evaluate, and learn.





Question 23:
What should the project team do after creating the first value stream map?

Develop a plan to implement fixes
Create a new map with the desired improvement
Display the stakeholders
Review to find waste

Ans:Review to find waste
    After the project team has created the first value stream map they should then analyze it to find any waste in the current process. 
    Then they can create a new map with the desired improvements.




Question 24:
What is the term for the type of agile meeting where the team looks at possible things that can cause the 
failure of a project in the future?

Standup meeting
Sprint planning meeting
Pre-mortems
Sprint review meeting

Ans:Pre-mortems
    A project Pre-Mortems is a team meeting that looks at possible things that can cause failure during the project before they take place.



Question 25:
A retrospective should be done _______ ?

After each iteration
After each release
Before each iteration
Before each release

Ans:After each iteration
    A retrospective is a meeting that lasts about two hours that should take place after each iteration.










=============================================
##180 Question Mock Exam
=============================================
180 questions | 3 hours 50 minutes | 70% correct required to pass


Question 1
A major portion of a large construction development project was completed by a contractor. 
The contractor has completed all the work listed in the agreement but also completed other work the contractor felt had to be done. 
The contractor is asking for more money that was not listed in the agreement, and the project manager 
feels that what they’re asking for is too much for the additional work that was completed. What should the project manager do next?     

    Tell the contractor they should not have done additional work   
    Inform the contractor that the project does not have the additional funds to cover the work   
    Contact claims administration   (    Correct answer)
    Inform the sponsor   

Overall explanation:
    When there is a dispute between a buyer and a seller for additional funds, the dispute should be resolved 
    by going to the claims administration, who can then facilitate the dispute. 
    The other choices will not resolve the dispute between the buyer and the seller.



Question 2
The project has managed to build about half of the deliverables needed to complete the project. 
The project has spent $50,000 on materials and labor. 
This money that has already been spent is generally referred to as what?   

    *Sunk cost   
    Project budget   
    Opportunity cost   
    Spent cost   

Overall explanation:
    Sunk cost is the money that has already been spent on the project. 
    The project budget includes the cost baseline and the management reserves. 
    Opportunity cost is the cost of all lost opportunities when selecting a project. Spent cost is a made-up term.


Question 3
    The project team has finished 60% of the deliverables when management informs the project manager that the 
    project will be canceled immediately and the team will be reassigned to work on a new project that management feels is more important. 
    What should the project manager do right away?   

    Immediately released the team and start working on the new project   
    Inform management that the project cannot stop because the deliverables are 60% done   
    *Inform the project team, conduct a lesson learned session, and formally release the team from the project   
    Return to planning to understand why the project might have been terminated

OverallExplanation:
If a project is terminated before completion, the project manager should immediately move to the close project 
or phase process and formally close the project. The other choices do not involve the activities in the close project or phase process.


Question 4
The agile project team has completed the Sprint planning meeting. What would be the output of this meeting?

    Product backlog
    User backlog
    Sprint requirements
    *Sprint backlog

Overall explanation:
    The output of the Sprint planning meeting is the Sprint backlog which will outline all work to be done in the next Sprint.



Question 5
As an agile project manager, you have encountered many issues with the product owner. 
The product owner has refused to prioritize the product backlog, stating that all items are equally important. 
After educating the product owner about the value of prioritization, he still refuses. What should the agile project manager do?

    *Continue to educate the product owner
    Prioritize the product backlog for the product owner
    Replace the product owner
    Have the team prioritize the product backlog

Overall explanation:
    One of the core task of being an agile project manager is to educate and promote the values of 
    agile practices even when stakeholders are reluctant to follow those principles.


Question 6
Managing a project can be a very complex task that involves identifying and managing all the stakeholders on the project. 
The project manager spends 90% of their time doing what important task?   

    Determining how long it will take to finish an activity   
    Determining how much an activity will cost   
    Determining the needs of the stakeholders   
    *Communications   

Overall explanation:
    Communications generally take up 90% of the project manager’s time. This generally includes various types of meetings, 
    discussions, negotiation, and problem solving. 
    A project manager does not determine how much an activity will cost or how long it will take; that is generally 
    done by a subject matter expert.


Question 7
While installing the new virtual server, the team discovers a new method that they can use on this project and future 
projects that can get the installation done in about half the time. This new method involves prepping the server image 
and cloning the machines. What is the best project document for the team to update?

    Opportunity register   
    Risk register   
    Your answer is correct
    *Lessons learned register   
    Knowledge management register   

Overall explanation:
    Any time new knowledge is gained on a project, it should be added to the lessons learned register to 
    be used throughout the project and on future projects. The risk register is used to list all the risks that 
    can affect the project and how the project team would respond to them. Opportunity and knowledge management registers are made-up terms.


Question 8
In what process does a project manager determine the approach they will use to involve the stakeholders to meet their expectations?   

    *Plan stakeholders engagement   
    Your answer is incorrect
    Manage stakeholders engagements   
    Plan communications   
    Identify stakeholders   

Overall explanation:
    During the process of plan stakeholder engagement, the project manager will develop an approach to 
    involve the stakeholders to meet their expectations, interest, and potential impact on the project. 
    Identify stakeholders is establishing who the stakeholders are on the project and what their interests will be. 
    Plan communications is to create a plan to ensure that all stakeholders are receiving the correct communications. 
    Manage stakeholder engagement is done to communicate with the stakeholders to meet their needs.


Question 9
Project manager Mark is currently working on a new office automation project and is consistently being asked 
for updates and meetings with the project sponsor. Mark informs the sponsor that the constant meetings disrupt his work, 
and his project is starting to fall behind schedule. The sponsor responds by saying that that is his management style. 
What best describes the sponsor’s management style?   

    Maslow’s hierarchy of needs   
    *Theory X   
    Theory Y   
    Theory Z   

Overall explanation:
Theory X is a management theory in which the manager does not trust his or her workers and will micromanage them. 
This theory generally leads to the team being unhappy. Theory Y refers to when a manager believes people want to do the 
work and trusts them. Theory Z refers to when employees are committed to a business and will generally 
stay with that business for a long period of time. Maslow’s hierarchy of needs specifies what a company must 
have in order for employees to stay motivated.


Question 10
The project manager has just spoken to one of the software developers, Bill, about the project and has asked for an 
estimate of how long it will take to code a specific function. Bill said that it would take a maximum of 10 days, 
but that most likely it will be 6 days. The project manager has calculated the PERT estimated duration of this activity 
to be 6 days. What is the least amount of days it will take to complete this activity?

    4
    1
    3
    *2

Overall explanation:
In this question, you have to use the PERT formula, which is (O+4*R+P)/6 to find the optimistic number. 
The question gives you the answer to the formula—6 days—and you will need to figure out the other components. 
In the question, the pessimistic number given is 10, the realistic number is 6, and you have to find the optimistic number. 
Plug the numbers into the formula like this:  (O+4*6+10)/6=6. Based on this equation, O = 2.



Question 11
The agile project team has decided to do one of the features from the product backlog. 
The single feature will take six weeks to complete and will be reviewed by the customer. 
What actions should the agile project manager take next?

    Arrange the workspace for the team members to get started
    *Informed the team six weeks is too long and they will need to decomposed that feature into smaller increments
    Inform the customers of the six weeks duration
    Inform the team they need to conduct the daily standup meetings

Overall explanation:
    In agile, iterations should be no more than one to four weeks. Features that take longer than should be decomposed into smaller 
    features that can be completed within one to four weeks.



Question 12
The project manager and team have decided to hire a contractor to complete building out the remaining section of the datacenter. 
They have the requirements listed in detail and would like to use a contract that would present the smallest amount of risk to the project. 
The project team members would like to purchase the materials themselves since there are very familiar with the work. 
What contract is best for this project?   


    *Cost plus fixed fee
    Time and materials   
    Your answer is incorrect
    Cost plus contractor fee   
    Cost plus project fee   

Overall explanation:
    A cost-plus-fixed-fee contract is where the buyer pays all the work expenses and then pays a fixed price for the work. 
    A time and materials contract is where the buyer pays all the work expenses and then pays the sellers for the 
    time they spent doing the work, and this contract has the highest risk to the buyers. All other choices are made-up terms.


Question 13
A team member is working on upgrading the network server while another team member is painting the server room. 
The outcomes of these two events will not affect each other. What best describes the relationship between these two events?   

    They are mutually exclusiv
    *There are statistically independent
    They are not statistically independent
    They are statistically insignificant

Overall explanation:
    Statistical independence is a term used in probability that means one event cannot affect the other event. 
    Mutually exclusive is a term used when two events cannot happen at the same time; in this question, 
    these two events are happening at the same time.


Question 14
A project manager is having difficulties communicating with the project team; there always seem to be misunderstandings and conflicts. 
What interpersonal and team skills should the project manager improve on?   

    Selective listening   
    Passive listening   
    Lessons learned register
    *Active listening   

Overall explanation:
    Active listening helps to reduce misunderstandings and improves communications and knowledge sharing. 
    Selective listening and passive listening are not terms used in PMBOK. The lessons learned register is not an 
    interpersonal and team skills tool.

Question 15
The project manager is having a very difficult time collecting the requirements from the customers. 
The customers are having a difficult time putting the requirements into logical groupings. 
What tool can best help them group the requirements?   

    *Affinity Diagram   
    Decomposition   
    Prototype   
    Requirements Documentation   

Overall explanation:
    An affinity diagram is used to group large numbers of ideas to be analyzed. A prototype is a functional model 
    of a product given to customers for their feedback. Decomposition is a tool used to break work down into more detailed activities. 
    The requirements documentation would be the output of the process of collect requirements, not a tool.


Question 16
The project manager has been informed that the cost of building a new room in the office will be $15,000, +/- 65%. 
The project manager wants to know why there is such a large variance in the estimate. 
The builder said they have not seen the space and it’s just a high-level estimate. 
What kind of estimate does this best represent?   

    Materials estimate   
    Detail estimate   
    Your answer is correct
    *Rough order of magnitude estimate   
    Definitive estimate     

Overall explanation:
    A rough order of magnitude estimate has a variance of -25% to +75%. It is usually done in the early phases of the project. 
    Definitive estimates are between -5% to +10%. Detail estimate and materials estimate are made-up terms.


Question 17
The team is concerned with the quality of the product about to be created by the project. 
What statement about quality management is true?

    Inspection leads to less prevention   
    High-grade, low quality is okay
    *Low-grade, high quality is okay
    Low-grade, low quality is okay

Overall explanation:
    A low-grade, high-quality project is acceptable. The grade just represents the number of features a project had. 
    Low quality is never okay. Prevention leads to less inspection.


Question 18
While working on an agile project, the project manager met with the project team members to discuss what they did the 
day before and what they plan to do today. What is the name of this meeting?   

    Sprint review meeting   
    *Daily stand-up meeting     
    Sprint planning meeting   
    Project review meeting 

Overall explanation:
    A daily stand-up meeting is done on a daily basis to answer 3 questions:
    What have you done since yesterday?
    What will you do today?
    Are there any roadblocks?
    A sprint planning meeting is done to determine what work will be done in a sprint. 
    A sprint review is where the customers review the work that was done in the sprint. There is no such meeting as a project review meeting.


Question 19
Which of the following is an XP practice that helps to create a shared vision between the developers and the customers?
    Iteration review meeting
    Retrospectives
    *Metaphors
    Daily standup meetings

Overall explanation:
    A metaphor is using XP to explain designs and create a shared vision between customers and the development team.


Question 20
While monitoring and controlling a project, the project manager has been comparing the work 
performance data to the project management plan to see if there is any variance. 
What process did the project manager finish to get the work performance data?   

    Monitor and control project work   
    *Direct and manage project work   
    Develop project management plan   
    Control Scope   

Overall explanation:
    Work performance data is an output of the integration process of direct and manage project work.


Question 21
A project has completed 60% of all the work. The team has spent 55% of the project budget. 
The budget is currently set at $180,000. The sponsor has requested the project’s CPI. What CPI figure should the project manager provide?   


    *1.1   
    $18,000   
    .99   
    $108,000   

Overall explanation:
    CPI is equal to EV/AC. To find the CPI, you must first find EV and AC. EV is equal to the percentage of 
    actual work completed x BAC (budget at completion), which is 60% x $180,000 = $108,000. AC (actual cost) 
    is just the amount of money already spent on the project, which is 55% x $180,000 = $99,000. So, CPI is $108,000/$90,000 = 1.1.


Question 22
The project manager and the project team are reviewing the completed deliverables to 
see if they meet the performance requirements outlined in the requirements documentation. 
This is done so that when the customers are invited to inspect the deliverable, there will be no issues. 
What is the best output of this process?   

    Project management plan   
    Requirements documentation   
    *Verified deliverables   
    Accepted deliverables   

Overall explanation:
    The process of quality control is when the deliverables are inspected to see if they meet the quality requirements. 
    The output of this process is verified deliverables. Control quality is generally done before the process of validate scope, 
    where the deliverables will be inspected by the customers for a formal acceptance. 
    The project management plan, accepted deliverables, and requirements documentation are not outputs of the control quality process.


Question 23
While working on a project, the CEO of the company has informed you that he would like to terminate the 
project and have you work on a few other projects. What kind of influence does this best represent?   


    *Upwards   
    Sideways   
    Downwards   
    Outwards   

Overall explanation:
    Upwards influence is for stakeholders above you such as senior management. 
    Downward influence is for those below you such as team members. Sideways influence is for those who are your 
    peers such as other project managers. Outwards influence is for those who are external, such as vendors.


Question 24
The project manager has to present a risk assessment to senior management and has decided to take the most graphical 
representation of the probability and impact assessment. What tool should the project manager use?   

    *Bubble chart   
    Risk register   
    Pareto chart   
    Risk summary chart   

Overall explanation:
    Bubble charts are tools in the perform quantitative risk analysis process and can show the probability, 
    impact, and ranking of risk. The risk register is not graphical. Pareto charts are used for quality, not risk. 
    Risk summary charts is a made-up term.


Question 25
A project manager wants to ensure that the new cell phone the project is creating will beat or match the 
performance of new cell projects by other companies. What tool would be the best for the project?   

    Plan quality management
    Collect requirements   
    Meetings   
    *Benchmark   

Overall explanation:
    Benchmarking is a tool in plan quality that is used to compare best practices to other projects, 
    either within or outside of the organization. Plan quality is a process, not a tool. 
    Meetings are tools used by the project manager to interact with the project team and solve problems. 
    Collecting requirements is a process, not a tool.


Question 26
The project manager is having a difficult time keeping the project on plan. 
There are many changes regarding the project scope, which has led to an increase in the project budget. 
Management would like a reason why there have been so many scope changes on this project. 
What would most likely cause many scope changes on a project?   


    *Did not gather detailed requirements.   
    The project manager does not have enough training.   
    Management did not approve the project.   
    Spent too long creating the project schedule and not enough time on the scope.   

Overall explanation:
    Generally, if a project manager finds themselves with many scope changes when the project is executed, 
    it’s most likely that they did not gather the requirements adequately from the customers. 
    The other choices cannot be selected because the question does not give enough information regarding them.


Question 27
Your company has just started a project to allow remote workers to join the network using a virtual private network (VPN). 
During the execution of the project, one of the VPN servers completely fails, and the team will need to 
replace it as soon as possible. Fortunately, the project team anticipated that this might happen and has a 
plan for replacing the server. What should the project manager do next?   

    Correct answer
    *Implement risk response   
    Plan risk response   
    Perform qualitative risk analysis   
    Conduct risk response   

Overall explanation:
    Implement risk response is a process in the executing process group, where the project manager 
    implements the preplanned responses to any risks that may have taken place. 
    Plan risk responses is done to determine the team’s response if a risk happens, perform qualitative 
    risk analysis is used to rank risks, and conduct risk response is not a PMBOK process.


Question 28
Mark is currently working on the workstation upgrade project. 
He has noticed there are three activities on the critical path, which are activity A, C, and D. 
Activity B has a slack of 2 and a duration of 4 days. Activity C has a duration of 3 days, and activity D has a duration of 6 days. 
What is the slack on activity A?   

    4 days   
    Cannot be determined   
    2 days   
    Correct answer
    *0 days   

Overall explanation:
    Activities on a critical path have zero slack. The question is trying to mislead you into drawing a 
    network diagram that is not needed to determine the slack.


Question 29
While working on the network upgrade project, the project manager receives many ideas about what to include in the project. 
The ideas seem to be very scattered and not logically grouped. What tool can best help the project manager group these ideas?

    Histograms   
    Flowchart    
    Ideas Matrix   
    Correct answer
    *Affinity diagrams   

Overall explanation:
    An affinity diagram is used to group a large number of ideas to review and analyze. 
    A histogram is used to show frequencies over time. A flowchart is used to visually view a process for improvements. 
    An ideas matrix is a made-up term.


Question 30
What is the difference between the product backlog and the iteration backlog?

    The product backlog contains all work needed to be completed on the project, and the iteration backlog will contain 
    the steps needed to complete the work

    The product backlog and the iteration backlog will outline the steps needed to manage the product and iteration'

    *The product backlog contains all work needed to be completed on the project, and the iteration backlog will contain 
    all work that will get done in the next iteration

    The product backlog contains the work that the project team will do in the next iteration, and the iteration backlog 
    will contain all the steps needed to complete the work

Overall explanation:
    The product backlog will contain all the work needed to complete the project, while the iteration backlog 
    will contain the work that will get done in the next iteration.



Question 31
While working on a web design project, the change control board approved a change to the layout of the menu. 
What process should the project manager conduct next to ensure the change is implemented?   

    Verify scope   
    Update change log   
    Update project management plan   
    Correct answer
    *Direct and manage project work   

Overall explanation:
Once a change has been approved, it is then moved to the direct and manage project work process for implementation. 
Verify scope is done when all the deliverables are completed and require stakeholders’ acceptance. 
Update project management plan and change log are not processes.


Question 32
A large development company has just initiated a project to build a 60-story building. 
The project will take approximately 3 years to complete with a cost of $550 million. 
The development company has started to facilitate funding for the project by asking private equity firms and banks. 
What tools does this best represent?

    Analogous estimates   
    *Financing   
    Funding limit reconciliation   
    Parametric estimates   

Overall explanation:
    Financing is a tool used in the process of determine budget. This is when a company looks at external sources to fund the project. 
    Funding limit reconciliation is done when there are limited funds to spend on the project and work may need to be rescheduled. 
    Parametric estimates are a type of mathematical estimates done to estimate the cost of each activity. 
    Analogous estimates are based on historical information to estimate the cost of each activity.


Question 33
The project manager has noticed that a few team members are having a difficult time following the inspection process 
to check the quality of new software. What is the best tool to help them see the process, making it easier to follow?

    *Flowchart   
    Control Chart   
    Histogram
    Process design chart   

Overall explanation:
A flowchart is used to visually follow the steps in a process or multiple processes. 
A control chart will show if a process is in “control” by illustrating the rule of 7. 
A histogram is a bar chart that usually shows frequency of something. A process design chart is a made-up term.


Question 34
The project team is having a very difficult time deciding what method they should use 
when programming the new functions in the application. 
They can choose between four different methods, and the team is evenly split regarding which method to choose. 
The project manager has decided that he will choose the method for them and will take the responsibility in 
case it is not the best way to program functions. What best describes this technique?   

    Leadership   
    Correct answer
    *Autocratic   
    Voting   
    Multi-criteria decision   

Overall explanation:
    In autocratic decision making, an individual makes the decision for the team and takes responsibility for the decision. 
    Voting is when the team votes on a potential decision, and multi-criteria decision is when different 
    criteria are used to evaluate a decision. Leadership refers to skills for managing the team.


Question 35
The project manager is currently working on a large building renovation project. 
The project team is almost done with planning when the project sponsor informs the project manager that due to new regulations, 
the project will need to be completed within 6 months; if not, 
they will not be able to open the building to the public. What best represents this?   

Work packages   
Assumptions   
Correct answer
*Constraints   
Deliverables   

Overall explanation:
    A constraint is something that limits a project, which can include time or cost. 
    In this question, the constraint is a limitation on the time available to get the project done. 
    Deliverables, assumptions, and work packages are not constraints on a project.


Question 36
While working on a project, the project manager has been inspiring the team members to do the best 
they can, while also regularly communicating the project’s vision to the team. What skill does this best describe?   

    Active listening   
    Facilitation   
    *Leadership   
    Networking     

Overall explanation:
Leadership skill is part of interpersonal and team skills. It is used to inspire people and to communicate the project’s vision.


Question 37
The project manager has been informed that the company’s senior management would like a meeting about the status of the project. 
What should the project manager take to display the current schedule of the project?   

    Network diagram   
    *Milestone chart   
    WBS   
    Gantt chart   

Overall explanation:
    A milestone chart is a high-level view of major accomplishments on a project. 
    These are best used when presenting a quick view of data and the project schedule to management personnel. 
    All other choices would give you a detailed view of the project schedule and work.



Question 38
Project manager Mark is working to create the project scope statement for a sales management software. 
Many stakeholders have requested that a feature be added to enable automated call-backs to leads that come through the website. 
Mark realizes that adding this feature will not be possible due to the fact that the company’s 
current network lacks the required hardware. What is the best approach for Mark to take?   


    Tell the stakeholders to submit a change request   
    Tell the stakeholders the feature will be added after the project is done   
    *Adds the feature as an exclusion to the scope statement   
    Add the feature and hope the sponsor approves the budget   

Overall explanation:
A project scope statement not only contains the project’s deliverables but also the exclusions, 
which are features the project will not accomplish. Mark should not add the feature due to the company’s inability to install it.

Question 39
While working on a large multinational project, you identify some of the positive and negative stakeholders. 
What process group are you currently engaged in?

Correct answer
*Initiating   
Communications management   
Stakeholder management   
Planning   

Overall explanation:
    The process of identifying stakeholders is part of the initiating process group.



Question 40
The datacenter redesign project has been executed and is currently 50% complete. 
One of the project’s key stakeholders has submitted a change request to change the building’s wiring from copper cables to fiber cables. 
The project manager has contacted a wiring contractor, who said it will take about 2 months to install the fiber at a cost of $2 million. 
What should the project manager do next?

Deny the change due to the schedule   
Update the project management plan   
*Submit the change to change control board   
Deny the change due to the high cost  

Overall explanation:
    Once a change has been assessed, the next step would be to get the change approved or rejected by the change control board. 
    The project manager should not approve or deny changes without a response from the change control board. 
    Once a change is approved, you can update the project management plan.



Question 41
The project manager has met with the project team and has informed them that his team performance assessments are done, 
and he would like to speak with each of them individually about the results. What process group is this?

Initiating   
Your answer is incorrect
Monitoring and controlling   
Planning   
*Executing   

Overall explanation:
    During the executing process group, the project manager will assess the team’s performance and try to improve it through 
    the process of developing and managing the team.


Question 42
The project manager has reviewed all the work performance information that has been created so far on the project. 
He has started to create the overall project status report to present to the project stakeholders. 
What process is the project manager conducting?   

Develop project management plan   
*Monitor and control project work   
Direct and manage project work   
Develop project report   

Overall explanation:
    Monitor and control project work process has an input of work performance information and an output of work performance report. 
    No other choice has the output of work performance report.


Question 43
The project manager and team are currently working to create a list of activities needed to complete the project. 
They have come to one particular work package that they cannot decompose because they do not know enough about the work yet. 
They have decided that midway through the project, they will decompose this particular work package. 
What tool or technique are they using?   


Decomposition   
Forward Planning   
Requirements Future Planning   
*Rolling Wave Planning   

Overall explanation:
    Rolling wave planning is a tool used in the process of define activities to break work down in the future. 
    Forward planning and requirements future planning are not real tools used in the process of define activities. 
    Decomposition is a tool used to break down the current activities.


Question 44
The project team is working with the customers to write the user stories. 
The customers have refused as they claim this would add no value to the project.
What would be the best step to resolve this?

Inform them user stories may not be needed
*Educate the users why the user stories are valuable
Ask the agile project manager to write the user stories
Have the team write the user stories

Overall explanation:
    When managing an agile project, user stories will produce a lot of value to both the team members and the customers, 
    as such it would be best to educate them on the value of the user stories.



Question 45
After the project manager has collected the requirements and received approval for the scope statement, 
what process should the project manager do next?

Create scope baseline   
*Create WBS   
Sequence activities   
Define activities   

Overall explanation:
    The create WBS process is generally done after the scope statement has been created, as it will decompose the 
    deliverables in the scope statement. You cannot define activities or sequence activities until the WBS is complete, 
    as you will need to know work packages to create the activities. Create scope baseline is a made-up term.



Question 46
A project manager decided to assign each team member on a project to no more than one activity at a time. 
This way, the team doesn’t get burned out and can work at a steady pace. 
The schedule may increase due to this policy, which is okay with the sponsor. What technique best describes this action?   


*Resource leveling   
Resource equalization   
Resource movement   
Resource crashing   

Overall explanation:
    Resource leveling is done when resources on a project are over-allocated; it removes resources that are working on 
    two activities at the same time.


Question 47
The project manager and sponsor are consulting with banks and other lending institutions in order to obtain funds for the project. 
What process describes these actions?     

Determine project financing   
*Determine budget   
Plan cost management   
Develop project charter   

Overall explanation:
    The determine budget process is where the tool of financing is used to seek funding for the project. 
    Develop project charter is used to get the project authorized. 
    Plan cost management is used to create the cost management plan. 
    Determine project financing is a made-up process.

Question 48
While conducting procurement on a project, the project manager has received many different bids with a wide variance of 
estimated cost for the work. What can the project manager use to best determine which vendor has given a realistic price?

Inspection and audits   
Screening system   
Weighing system   
*Independent estimate   

Overall explanation:
    An independent estimate is usually done by an outside entity to help give the project manager a more independent 
    understanding of what certain project work will cost. 
    Inspections and audits are done after the seller is selected to ensure the work stays on contract. 
    Screening and weighing systems are done to help select sellers.


Question 49
The project manager is currently analyzing the requirements for the project. 
He has been informed that the stakeholders will be very disappointed if there are defects in the deliverables. 
He decides to ensure that the project team receives the right training and the best 
equipment available to build the deliverables correctly. 
This will in turn increase the overall cost of the project, but stakeholders do not mind the increase in cost. 
What best describes this increase in cost?   


*Cost of quality   
Cost of the requirements   
Activities cost   
Expert judgement   

Overall explanation:
    The cost of quality includes the cost of conformance, which includes funds spent to ensure the project meets the quality requirements. 
    This generally includes the cost of better materials, more expert team members, and better equipment. 
    Cost of resource requirements and activity costs are not valid elements. 
    Expert judgement involves hiring subject matter experts to help plan a particular process.

Question 50
While working on a network upgrade project, a team member installed the network connection and is now configuring the router 
in order to work with the network connection. The network connection must be done before the router can be configured. 
This is an example of what kind of dependency?   


*Mandatory dependency   
Internal dependency   
Discretionary dependency   
External dependency   

Overall explanation:
    Mandatory dependency is when activities must be done in a certain order. For example, you must complete A then complete B. 
    Internal dependencies are things that are under the control of the project team, and external dependencies are things that 
    are outside the control of the project team, such as getting a permit. 
    Discretionary dependency is when two activities can be done in any order and they’re not dependent upon each other.


Question 51
While monitoring the status of an agile project, what numerical analysis can the project team use to help determine if 
the project is on schedule?


*Earned value management
Net present value
Return on investment
Scheduling management values

Overall explanation:
Earned value management is a series of formulas that monitor the value of the project as it’s progressing and 
generally track cost and schedule.

Question 52
While attempting to determine the schedule for the project, the project manager has been informed from the team that 
each line of code will take about 15-45 minutes to write and debug. 
There will be about 1 million lines of code in the application. 
What schedule-estimating technique best describes this estimate?   

Analogous   
Bottom-up   
*Parametric   
Top-down   

Overall explanation:
Parametric estimates are based on a data set such as cost per feet or time per task. 
Top-down and analogous are the same and are high-level estimates based on historical data. 
Bottom-up involves breaking down the work and then adding it back up.

Question 53
During the datacenter development project, the project manager has noticed that some of the work being done on the project is 
not in the baseline scope. The project manager has analyzed the work completed by the project team and then 
compared that to the project management plan to see where the differences are. 
What process best describes the work of the project manager?   

Manage scope   
*Control scope   
Monitor scope   
Validate scope   

Overall explanation:
    Control scope is a process where you compare the work that has been completed to the project management 
    plan to see if they line up. If there is a variance, the project manager should initiate actions to fix the variance. 
    Validate scope is a process where stakeholders formally accept the project deliverables. 
    Monitor and manage scope are made-up processes.


Question 54
When an organization is considering a project, what are some of the factors that can influence why a project should get done?

Hiring new personnel   
Continuing the day-to-day work in a particular department
Making the company shareholders happy   
*Meeting regulatory, legal, or social requirements   

Overall explanation:
Reasons a project should get done include meeting regulatory, legal, or social requirements, 
satisfying stakeholders’ needs, and implementing business changes. The other choices pertain to operational work, 
which is more day-to-day and ongoing.

Question 55
Senior management would like your project to have as few risks as possible. Which of the following contracts best meets their criteria?

Cost plus fixed fee   
Cost reimbursable   
Time and material   
*Fixed price   

Overall explanation:
A fixed price contract will have the lowest risk for the project, since the costs of the labor and material are known up front. 
All other contracts, such as cost reimbursable and time and material will have more risks for the buyers than the sellers. 
A cost plus fixed fee contract is a type of cost reimbursable contract.

Question 56
Senior management has requested an update to the current product upgrade project. 
The project manager knows she has to keep the information high-level, and as short as possible. 
Which resource would be the best to show senior management?   

Project schedule network diagram   
*Milestone chart   
WBS dictionary   
WBS   

Overall explanation:
    A milestone chart shows only the timeframes of the major deliverables. All other choices such as the WBS, 
    WBS dictionary, and the network diagram are very detailed.


Question 57
The work the project will contain and the velocity of the team is currently at 14 points. 
What is the total size of the project in terms of story points?

150
110
*140
130

Overall explanation:
    Total size of the project will be 10 iterations x 14 points = 140 Points.



Question 58
During a new smartphone development project, the customers are given a prototype of the product for them to demo. 
They inform you that the phone constantly reboots, and sometimes the touch screen does not work. 
What tool can the project team use to find the reasons for these defects?   

Inspections   
*Ishikawa diagram   
Assumptions analysis   
Histograms   

Overall explanation:
An Ishikawa diagram, also known as a cause-and-effect diagram, is used to list the many different probabilities for a 
project’s defect. Assumptions analysis involves analyzing assumptions, histograms are used to show the frequency of defects, 
and inspections are used to see if a deliverable has met its requirements.

Question 59
While planning the risk responses for a construction project, the project manager and project team have decided they 
will have to choose a new electrical contractor due to the fact that the recommended contractor has legal 
issues with the local building department. The legal issues could cause the project to be delayed. 
What risk response does this represent?   


Accept
Mitigate   
Exploit   
*Avoid   

Overall explanation:
    Avoidance is when you go down a different path all together. The risk is eliminated and cannot happen. 
    Since they chose another contractor, they cannot get delayed by that particular contractor. 
    Acceptance is taking no action against the risk and accepting the outcome. 
    Mitigation is done to reduce the risk probability and/or impact. 
    Exploit is for a positive risk that will ensure the risk takes place.



Question 60
While working on a project, you realize that you will not be able to install the server and the workstations at the same time. 
In fact, the team has alerted you that after the server installation is done, you should wait an additional 
4 days before installing the workstations. This is due to the updates the server will need, which is an automated process. 
What do you need to add to the schedule in order to account for this delay?   

Slack   
*Lag   
Lead   
Float   

Overall explanation:
    A lag is a delay between activities. A lead is an overlap between activities. 
    Slack and floats refer to the same thing: the amount of time you can delay an activity without delaying the project.


Question 61
The project was executed about 3 weeks ago, and the project team seems to be having a lot of difficulties getting along with each other. 
They are always having conflicts about how to proceed on certain activities, 
and the project manager has to step in in order to solve these conflicts. What process is the project manager performing?   

Manage Team   
Acquire Team   
Control Scope   
Control Resources   

Overall explanation:
    In the process of manage team, the project manager has to resolve issues and conflicts among the project team. 
    This is done using the tool interpersonal and team skills, particularly conflict management. 
    Acquire team is not a process in the PMBOK. 
    Control resources is a process that involves physical resources, not human resources. 
    Control scope is about preventing scope creep and ensuring the project meets the scope.


Question 62
While compiling all the work performance information into the work performance report, a 
project manager notices that the SPI of the project is .6 and the CPI is .7. 
What action should the project manager take next on this project?   

Inform the sponsor the project is over budget.   
None since the project is on the budget and ahead of schedule.   
Inform the sponsor of a major delay.   
*Create a change request to correct the project.   

Overall explanation:
In this scenario, an SPI of .6 and a CPI of .7 indicate that the project is behind schedule and over budget. 
The project manager should initiate change requests to correct the budget and schedule of the project. 
Informing the sponsor of only a delay or being over budget is just half of what’s wrong with the project.


Question 63
One of the customers would like to add a new component to the project that would likely increase the functionality of the software.
What steps should the customer take when adding this new component on an Agile project?

Ask the agile project manager for permission to add it to the product backlog
*Add it to the product backlog
Fill out a change request form
Changes are not allowed on agile projects

Overall explanation:
    When a customer would like to add a change to an agile project, they simply added to the product backlog. 
    That new feature will then be prioritized based on its value in the product backlog.

Question 64
The project manager is working on a project for which the scope, time, and cost are known during the early 
parts of the project planning. What life cycle will the project manager consider on this project?   

PMBOK life cycle   
*Predictive life cycle   
Straightforward life cycle   
Iterative life cycle   

Overall explanation:
    A predictive life cycle is used when the scope, time, and cost are mostly determined in the early phases of the project. 
    In this life cycle, changes to the scope must be managed correctly; if not, there may be scope creep. 
    In an iterative life cycle, the scope is generally known in the early parts of the project, but the cost is updated as the 
    project progresses.

Question 65
The project team has just started to code a redesigned accounting application when a key stakeholder 
asks for the application to include a very specific report on the company’s expenses. 
The stakeholder has submitted a change request to the project manager. 
What would be the most important input to consider for this change request?   


Work performance reports   
Work performance data   
Accepted deliverables   
Work performance information   

Overall explanation:
    Work performance reports are an input to the process of performing integrated change control, 
    as it will show the overall status of the project. The other choices are not inputs to this process.

Question 66
While working on a complex web design project, the manager has received a change request from a senior 
stakeholder to fix a problem with the current intranet server. 
The project manager has determined that this change is outside the scope of the project and is not covered by the 
work listed in the project charter. What should the project manager do next?   


*Inform the stakeholder that this change request should be considered a new project   
Pass the change to change control board   
Inform the stakeholder that the change will incur a significant cost and time increase   
Ignore the change request   

Overall explanation:
Although all change requests should be considered by the project manager, they should be related to the project work. 
No change should be approved if it is outside the scope of the project charter, since that would not be considered work within 
the current project.

Question 67
Over the last three weeks the project team has finally been able to establish a shared vision of what the 
product would look like when it is complete. This is an example of?

Shared vision
*Progressive elaboration
Progressive management
Requirements gathering

Overall explanation:
    Progressive elaboration occurs when more detailed information emerges over time.


Question 68
The project team has completed a bidder conference for the office renovation project. 
Over 15 different construction companies came to the conference. Directly after the conference, 
all the companies submitted their bids immediately. What is the next step the project team should take?

Update the scope baseline   
*Select the seller   
Rewrite the statement of work   
Update the agreement   

Overall explanation:
A bidder conference is a tool used for conduct procurement, and the output of this process is to 
select the seller and receive an agreement. Rewriting the scope statement or updating the scope baseline may come after 
you have selected the seller.

Question 69
After the iteration has completed, where will the team inspect the methods they used to build that increment?


Iteration review
Iteration backlog
Iteration planning
*Retrospective

Overall explanation:
    A retrospective is done after each iteration so the team can reflect and plan improvements for the next iteration.

Question 70
While managing a product development project, the project manager met with the team to determine some of 
the key tasks that will ensure they produce a high-quality product. What should they consider the most important concept in quality?     

High-grade is more important than high-quality
Cost of quality only includes the inspection cost
*Quality is about prevention
Quality is about more inspection than prevention

Overall explanation:
Quality management is about preventing defects from getting into the hands of the customers. 
It’s more important to have high quality than high grade. More prevention will lead to less inspection. 
The cost of quality includes all prevention and inspection costs.

Question 71
A project manager has just taken over an agile project that is about 50% complete. 
The project manager is currently reviewing the product backlog and notices the requirements are not in an order he understands. 
How is the product backlog prioritized?


*By value   
By regulation   
By schedule   
By cost   

Overall explanation:
The product backlog is prioritized by the product owner based on value. The requirements with the most value will be at the 
top of the list and will be completed in the next iteration.

Question 72
The risk management plan generally outlines the steps the project will take to conduct risk management processes on the project. 
Which of the following will the risk management plan not include?   

A way to categorize the risks   
The methodology used to manage risks   
*Positive risks that could affect the project   
Roles and responsibilities for the project team concerning risks processes   

Overall explanation:
The risk register lists both positive and negative risks, not the risk management plan. 
The risk management plan includes the risk breakdown structure that categorizes risks, roles, and responsibilities for the 
team members and the methodology they would use to perform the risk processes on the project.


Question 73
While developing a new smartphone, the project team has identified a specific set of performance measurements that 
the phone should meet when it is complete. The measurement looks at how fast the phone can boot up and how fast it can shut down. 
Where should the project team document these measurements?   

Quality checklist   
Quality management plan   
Requirements traceability Matrix   
*Quality metrics   

Overall explanation:
    Quality metrics are used to measure the project deliverables. The quality checklist will inform the project team what to 
    look for when inspecting the project deliverables. The quality management plan will outline how to conduct the quality 
    processes such as manage quality and control quality. The requirements traceability matrix will track 
    the requirements back to their origin.


Question 74
The project team has been brought together for the first time to work on a network upgrade project. 
They were able to learn about the functions they will doing on the project and what their roles will be. 
What will the team do next, according to Tuckman’s ladder?   


Forming   
Norming   
Performing   
*Storming   

Overall explanation:
    The team is currently in the forming stage and will move next to the storming stage. The stages are forming, storming, norming, 
    performing and adjourning.


Question 75
The project manager has decided that most of the stakeholders on the project would like to reference the status reports for
the project on the company’s internal website on their own time. This would make it easier for them, as it is very difficult to 
schedule a meeting with all of them at once. What type of communication best describes this?

Technical communication   
Interactive communication   
Push communication   
*Pull communication   

Overall explanation:
    Pull communication is done when stakeholders access the communications on their own time, usually through a web portal. 
    Push communication is when communication is given to the stakeholders such as in an email. Interactive is when stakeholders 
    are communicating in real time such as through a phone call. Technical communication is a made-up term.


Question 76
While monitoring a large construction project, the project manager has calculated the SPI of the project to be 1.2. 
A contractor has informed the project manager that a delivery will be 1 week late. The 1-week delay is 10% of the project schedule. 
What would mostly likely happen to this project?   

The project will finish behind schedule   
*The project will finish ahead of schedule   
The project will finish over budget   
The project will finish under budget   

Overall explanation:
The current SPI is 1.2, which means the project is 20% ahead of schedule. A 10% delay should not cause this project to 
finish behind schedule. You cannot determine the project’s budget from the information in this question.



Question 77
While working on an agile project, the team receives a request from the customer to deploy the software as soon as the iteration is done. The customer has already checked the completed part of the software and has accepted it. The team has refused to deploy the software. What best explains the team’s refusal?

The iteration has many errors   
*The iteration is part of a release   
The iteration took too long   
The iteration needs to be closed   

Overall explanation:
    Iterations are part of a product that is inspected by the customers. An iteration may not be something that can be released 
    to users since it only represents a few weeks’ worth of work. A release usually includes multiple 
    iterations that are releasable to the customers. 
    In this question the customer has already accepted the iteration, which means there are no errors in it.


Question 78
After a project manager is assigned to the project with the project charter, he continues to identify the stakeholders on the project. 
In this process, he creates the stakeholder register. Which of the following statements about the stakeholder register is false?   

*It’s only updated in the initiating phase of the project
It classifies the stakeholders
It contains a list of all stakeholders on the project
It’s updated throughout the project

Overall explanation:
    The stakeholder register is updated throughout the project, not just during the initiation phase of the project. 
    All other choices are true.


Question 79
While building an agile space, the project manager would like to implement a tool that will allow the team to keep 
track of the flow of work while limiting the work in progress. What tool best meets these requirements?

Whiteboard
Burndown charts
*Kanban development
Gantt chart

Overall explanation:
    Kanban development involves the use of a signboard that is used to help track the work in progress and limit the work in progress.



Question 80
When managing risks on a project, the project manager should be aware of the individual project risks and which other project risks?   


Overall project risks   
High-level risks   
High-probability risks   
Group project risks   

Overall explanation:
Risk generally falls into two levels on a project: individual project risks and overall project risks. 
All other terms are not different types of risks.


Question 81
The project sponsors have informed the project manager that they would like to be included in the weekly 
meetings along with the team members. What should the project manager update to include the sponsors in the weekly meetings?   

Scope management plan   
Risk management plan   
*Communication management plan   
Project communications   

Overall explanation:
    The communication management plan outlines who will be receiving what type of communications, how often they will 
    receive them, and who will provide them. The project manager should update this plan to specify who will be attending the weekly meetings. 
    The scope and risk management plans do not contain any information about project meetings. 
    Project communications refer to actually communicating on a project.

Question 82
While managing the stakeholders’ engagement, the project manager notices that some of the team members are not respectful to 
other team members. This has led to a few conflicts between the members. What can the project manager best do about this?   


Implement ground rules   
Stop the project   
Inform the sponsor   
Release the team   

Overall explanation:
    Ground rules are usually set within the team charter and are the general rules that the team will follow in 
    order to effectively work with each other. These generally include behavioral rules. Before releasing the team, 
    the project manager should try to resolve the problem. Conflicts within a project team should not be a reason to stop a project. 
    If you were to inform the sponsor, they would generally tell you to solve this problem.


Question 83
While working on a project schedule, the project manager notices that activities A, B, and C all have a duration of 4 days. 
The project manager also notices that activities F and G have a duration of 7 days. Activities A, C, F, and G have a slack of 1 day. 
Activity B is the only one on the critical path. What is the slack on activity B?   

Cannot be determined   
1 day   
*0 days   
2 days   

Overall explanation:
    If an activity is on the critical path, it will have zero slack. Non-critical path activities will have a slack of at least 1 day.


Question 84
Team members Mark and Bill are currently experiencing conflict in the office move project. 
Mark believes that it would be best if they moved the furniture first and then the computers, whereas Bill believes 
it’s best to move the computers and then the furniture. This conflict is causing a serious delay to the project, 
and both Mark and Bill have decided they will make a decision on what to move first at a later date. 
What conflict resolution technique best describes this scenario?


Accommodating   
Correct answer
Withdrawal   
Compromise   
Postponing   

Overall explanation:
The conflict resolution technique Illustrated in this question is withdrawal, which is when they postpone the issue to a 
later date to be better prepared. Compromise is when the two sides reach an agreement but both sides have to give up something. 
Postponing is a made-up term.


Question 85
The project sponsor has signed off on the project charter and has spoken to the project manager, 
who then has to keep the cost down on the project. The project manager agrees to try his best to 
keep cost down and to finish the project under budget. What should the project manager do next?  


Meet with the team to determine where money can be saved on the project   
*Meet with the stakeholders to gather their requirements   
Implement the project cost reduction program   
Create the WBS   

Overall explanation:
Once the project charter is created, the next step would be to collect the requirements and then 
create the scope statement and the WBS. You cannot meet with the team to reduce cost if you don’t know the requirements. 
There is no such thing as a cost reduction program in PMBOK.

Question 86
You’re currently working on a large new building development project. 
The project team is currently breaking down the deliverables listed in the project scope statement into work that is 
more manageable. What process best describes this scenario?   

Define activities   
*Create WBS   
Define WBS   
Define scope   


Overall explanation:
    During the create WBS process, the project team will use the decomposition tool to break down the project 
    deliverables into work packages. These work packages will then be used to help estimate the time and cost of the project. 
    Define activities is the process of decomposing the work packages into activities, not the deliverables. 
    Define scope is used to create the scope statement which will have a list of the deliverables. Define WBS is not a process.

Question 87
While working with the project team and conducting a brainstorming session, the project manager noticed that a 
lot of the ideas the team was coming up with were not organized. 
What tool can be used by the team to best visually organize their ideas?

Pareto diagram   
Flowchart   
Matrix diagram   
*Mind mapping   

Overall explanation:
    Mind mapping is a way to visually organize data. A matrix diagram is used to show the relationship between two or more groups. 
    A flowchart shows a graphical representation of a process. A Pareto diagram displays Pareto’s 80/20 rule, usually in a histogram.



Question 88
Your company has decided to roll out a new Wi-Fi network for the staff. 
The sponsor has informed you that encryption on the network is mandatory. 
Where will the project manager document that the encryption was mandated by the sponsor?   

Project scope statement   
Requirements traceability Matrix   
Requirements documentation   
*Scope Baseline   

Overall explanation:
The requirements traceability matrix will trace the requirements back to their origins. 
The project scope statement, scope baseline, and requirements documentation will not include where requirements came from.

Question 89
After many years of following the agile principles the project team has implemented a few new methods in 
addition to the agile methods in order to increase the efficiency of the project. This will be known as?

Process analysis
Non-agile processes
*Process tailoring
Hybrid processes

Overall explanation:
    Process tailoring is done to amend the agile methodology to better fit the project environment.


Question 90
The project manager is working on a new electrical wiring upgrade project for the entire office. 
Due to safety issues, the project manager cannot move forward with many parts of the project without 
inspections and permits from the local Buildings Department. Most permits take approximately 6 weeks to get. 
Where would the project manager document the opportunity the project should take if a permit comes within 2 weeks instead of the 6 weeks?

Change request   
*Risk register   
Assumption log   
Issue log   

Overall explanation
This question describes a positive risk, which is known as an opportunity, and this is added to the risk register.
The assumption log will only document assumptions that are made on a project, and the issue log will have a list of 
issues that are currently taking place on a project. A change request is only issued when parts of the project management 
plan or document must be updated.


Question 91
The project manager is informed that a manager in the finance department has requested to be included in the
weekly status updates on the project. What document should the project manager update immediately?   

Risk register   
Issue log   
*Stakeholder register   
Project communications   

Overall explanation:
    The stakeholder register can be updated at any point during the project. 
    It contains a list of all stakeholders and their contact information, communication requirements, and impact on the project. 
    Once this is done, then the project manager can update the communication management plan to add the new stakeholder. 
    This is a change, not an issue on a project, so there is no need to update the issue log. 
    The risk register keeps track of the risk on the project. Project communications are the actual 
    communications taking place during the project.

Question 92
What is considered the single most important skill a project manager should have?   
Technology   
*Communication   
Expert judgment   
Business   

Overall explanation:
    Effective communication is the single most important skill a project manager should have. 
    Projects are done by people, not technology.



Question 93
You are currently managing a business process reengineering project and have identified all the risks that can affect the project. 
You would like to put the risks in order from most impact to least impact on the project. What is the best process for doing so?   


*Perform qualitative risk analysis   
Perform quantitative risk analysis   
Rank Risk   
Plan risk response   

Overall explanation:
Perform qualitative risk analysis is a process used to rank risks according to probability and/or impact. 
Perform quantitative analysis is done in order to assign values to the risk. 
Plan risk response describes the strategies that would be used if a risk were to materialize. Rank risks is not a valid process.



Question 94
There have been many disputes on the project with the current contractor. 
The contractor claims the project team is always asking that work not be listed in the contract, and the team 
claims that the contractor has not been doing the work listed in the contract. What should the project manager do first? 



Meet with the project team members to understand why they feel the contractor has not been doing the work in the contract   
Meet with the contractor to understand why the team continually asks that the work not be listed in the contract   
*Review the contract   
Contact claims administration   

Overall explanation:
    The first step would be to review the contract to ensure he understands what the original agreement was, 
    and then he should meet with the team and contractor. If needed, he should then contact claims administration.
    


Question 95
The project has just been initiated, and the project sponsor calls the project manager to ask 
approximately when he thinks the project will be completed. 
The project manager replies that they have been unable to thoroughly analyze the work needed to complete the 
project and that he is not very knowledgeable about this kind of work. 
The sponsor insists on receiving a high-level estimate. 
The project manager responds that it will take approximately 3 months to complete the work based on 
his experience working on a project very similar to this one. What technique best represents this estimate?   

Parametric estimates   
Bottom-up estimates   
Expert judgement   
*Analogous estimates   

Overall explanation:
    Analogous estimation, also known as a top-down estimate, is usually a high-level estimate that is based on previous projects. 
    These estimates are done very quickly, but they’re generally less accurate than others. 
    Bottom-up estimates, parametric estimates, and expert judgments will need a lot more planning and understanding 
    of the work to be completed, but they are considered very accurate.

Question 96
The project manager, Mark, overheard that the project team is not satisfied with the way the budget was created. 
They strongly believe the project will be over budget at the end. What is the next best step for Mark?   

Ask the sponsor for approval to increase the budget.   
Do nothing, because the team didn’t speak to Mark about it.   
*Bring the team together and attempt to understand why they feel this way.   
Review how the budget was created.   

Overall explanation:
    A project manager should not take action on issues they overhear without first finding out why stakeholders feel a certain way. 
    This ensures that the project manager has a detailed understanding of the issues.



Question 97
The project team is currently working on an advertising project. They have completed a few of the activities, 
which includes writing the script for the commercial. Once the team completes an activity, what should they do next?


*Update work performance data   
Update project sponsor   
Update the project manager   
Close project or phase   

Overall explanation:
    Once work is done on a project, the team should update the work performance data. 
    This will include the status on the work, such as when it was completed or started. The project manager will take the work 
    performance data and create the work performance information and report, which will then be given to all the other stakeholders. 
    You should not close the project or phase until all work has been completed and accepted.


Question 98
While working on a new server upgrade project, the project manager calculates the SPI of the project to be 1.3. 
The project sponsor would like an explanation for why the SPI is that high. What would be the project manager’s best response?   


The project contained a lot of work that took more time than anticipated and is now completely behind schedule.   
The project had too many critical paths on it this led to a large delay on the project   
The project is currently on schedule due to the level of details that was covered during the planning processes   
*The project team were able to finish the work faster than anticipated and this is what led to the project being ahead of schedule   

Overall explanation:
    An SPI of 1.3 shows that the project is ahead of schedule by 30%. This could be because the project team is 
    finishing the work faster than originally scheduled. The other choices involve the project being either behind schedule or 
    on schedule, but in this situation, the project is ahead of schedule.


Question 99
While working on a project with a budget of $5,000, the project manager determines that the earned value on 
the project so far is $1,750. So far, the project team has spent $2,900. 
What should the project manager report as the status of the budget?   


The project is over budget by 60%.   
The project is under budget by 40%.
*The project is over budget by 40%.   
The project is under budget by 60%.   

Overall explanation:
    In this situation, you would need to find out the CPI of the project, which is EV/AC. 
    That would equal 1750/2900 = .6. A CPI of .6 indicates that the project is 40% over budget. Remember that if the CPI is 1, 
    then the project is on budget. Anything under 1 represents being over budget, and anything over 1 represents being under budget.



Question 100
Which of the following is a method that will be used to conduct frequent verification and validation that can be done every second on the project?


*Pair programming
Unit testing
Acceptance testing
Integration testing

Overall explanation:
    Pair programming is defined as when one programmer writes the code and another inspects the code as it’s being written. 
    This leads to the code being inspected in seconds.



Question 101
While working on a project, the project manager notices that most of their time is spent resolving conflicts 
between members of the project team. What is the best tool the project manager can use to resolve the problems amongst the team members?   


*Interpersonal and team skills
Expert judgement   
Training   
Colocation   

Overall explanation:
    Resolving team conflicts is done through the manage team process. This process includes interpersonal and team skills tools, 
    of which conflict management is a subset. Expert judgement, training, and collocation are not tools used in the manage team process.

Question 102
The project manager is working on a top-secret company project and would like to ensure all the correct security measures are in 
place for communications regarding the project. What tool should the project manager use?


*Communication technology   
Access controls   
Communication models   
Encryption   

Overall explanation:
Communication technology factors include sensitivity and confidentiality of the information on the project, 
which will require the project manager to assess the security needs of the project information. 
Communication models are used when looking at the communication processes. Encryption is not a tool in the PMBOK.

Question 103
    During a new workstation rollout project, a stakeholder asked for a change to some of the software being installed. 
    The change was submitted to the Change Control Board but was rejected due to the high increase in cost of the software being requested.
    What should the project manager do next?      

Update the issue log   
Resubmit the change request for additional consideration   
Perform additional analysis on the requested change   
*Update the change log   

Overall explanation:
Once a change has been denied, the next step is to update the change log with the status of the change. 
That can include whether it was approved or denied. Because this change was denied, it is not considered an issue on the project. 
The Change Control Board has already denied the change, so there is no need to perform additional analyses or resubmit it.

Question 104
While building the agile space for new agile team, which of the following tools should the project manager ensure 
is available to all of them?

A big screen monitor with the latest Kanban software
A network enabled project management software
*A whiteboard
Private offices with virtual meeting software

Overall explanation:
    The use of high-touch low-tech tools, such as a whiteboard, is vital in an agile environment to ensure collaboration and engagement 
    of all team members.

Question 105
Which of the following would be considered waste on a project?

Value-added features
*Waiting
Completed work
Value-added processes

Overall explanation:
    Waiting is considered waste on a project, as it represents time when no work is getting done.

Question 106
The product owner has informed the project manager that all items in the product backlog are valuable and they should all get done. 
How should the agile project manager respond?

Agree with the product owner and try to immediately complete as many of the backlog items as possible
Inform the project team that all items should get done immediately  
Prioritize the items himself
*Educate the product owner on the benefits of prioritizing the product backlog

Overall explanation:
    Part of being an agile project manager is to be an advocate for agile processes. This includes educating and teaching stakeholders 
    on the benefits of agile. Agile principles state only the product owner can prioritize the product backlog.


Question 107
While managing a small construction project, the project manager informs the project team members that they are 
using more materials than necessary to complete the project work. What process describes this scenario?   


Monitor resources   
Develop team   
Manage team   
*Control resources   

Overall explanation:
    Control resources is a process which ensures that physical resources are being utilized correctly. 
    Manage team and develop team are used to manage the project team and not the physical resources. 
    Monitor resources is a made-up process.



Question 108
The project manager and the project team are currently assessing various ways of responding to a particular risk. 
The project involves reconstructing part of their current office building, and they’re worried about a hurricane hitting 
and damaging the materials or parts of the unfinished building. 
The best response they came up with was to purchase insurance in case a hurricane does hit. What kind of strategy is this?   


*Transfer   
Avoidance   
Acceptance   
Mitigate   

Overall explanation :
    When a risk is transferred, it is usually transferred to another company, such as by purchasing insurance or hiring 
    a consultant. Avoidance is used to eliminate a risk by going down a different path. 
    Mitigation is used to reduce the probability and/or impact of a risk. Risk acceptance means doing nothing about the risk.

Question 109
The agile project team has determined that many of its processes have a lot of waiting and would like to 
remove all of the waste in the processes. What would be the best tool the agile team can use to improve their processes?


*Value stream map
Fishbone analysis
Triple nickel
Process tailoring

Overall explanation:
    A value stream map is a visual representation of the flow of information through a process in which you can identify waste, 
    such as waiting time, and optimize the process.



Question 110
The project team is currently working on a project to upgrade all the servers across the organization.
Before they are able to get the financial server, the vendor calls and says the server delivery has been delayed 2 weeks. 
What documents should the project manager update immediately?   

Change request   
Work breakdown structure   
Project schedule   
*Issue log   

Overall explanation
The issue log is used to keep track of all issues in the project. 
The delay of a server will mean the project might be delayed, so it should be entered into the issue log immediately. 
After that the project manager might implement a change request to extend the schedule baseline and update the project management plan. 
The work breakdown structure does not show work by time.



Question 111
The sponsor makes it clear that he does not want any of the team members to be overworked while working on a project. 
This means that no team member is allowed to work overtime. The sponsor is okay with the project being delayed due to this. 
What technique can the project manager best implement to ensure that no team member is overworked?   


*Resource leveling   
Resource smoothing
Lag   
Free float   

Overall explanation:
    Resource leveling is a technique used when resources are limited or over-allocated. 
    Resource leveling ensures that no resource is assigned to more than one activity at a time, 
    ensuring that no resource is overworked. Resource smoothing may accomplish the same task, but it only works if there is 
    slack available on the activities. Free float is the amount of time you can delay an activity without delaying the next activity. 
    Lag is the amount of time you need to delay an activity before the next activity starts.


Question 112
The project team and the project manager held a meeting to discuss a few issues related to the project. 
The meeting was very productive and led to most of the issues being resolved. 
A few weeks later, one team member brought up one of the issues that was resolved in the previous meeting as being unresolved. 
The project manager reviewed the meeting documentation and determined that the issue was resolved, 
but the team member may not have known about the resolution. 
What could the project manager have done differently to prevent this miscommunication?


*Distributed detailed meeting minutes   
Distributed a meeting agenda   
Ensured that the meeting stayed on topic   
Made sure the meeting was timed   

Overall explanation:
    While all the choices should be done for meetings, in this scenario, the project manager may have 
    failed to distribute the meeting minutes. That would explain why a team member didn’t think an issue was resolved during the meeting.


Question 113
The project manager has acquired the project team members and is starting to work with them to complete the project work. 
During this process, the project manager has utilized a variety of rewards and recognition theories to keep the team motivated. 
What is the output of this process?   


*Team performance assessments   
Individual and team assessments   
Training   
Virtual teams   

Overall explanation:
The process being completed in this question is develop team. The output is team performance assessments. 
All other choices are tools in this process.


Question 114
While managing a datacenter development project, the project manager has noticed there are many 
conflicts between the team members on the project. When managing a conflict in a project, what would be the best role for 
the project manager?   

Direct   
*Facilitator   
Advisor   
Dictator   

Overall explanation:
    When managing conflicts in a project, the project manager should facilitate a satisfactory resolution for the conflict. 
    The other roles are made-up terms.


Question 115
The project planning has been completed for the office renovation project. 
The project management plan has been approved by the sponsor and senior management. What should the project manager do next?   


Inform senior management   
Get all deliverables accepted   
*Hold a kickoff meeting     
Update the functional managers   

Overall explanation:
A project kickoff meeting is generally done after planning a large project to bring the team together and inform them of 
the project requirements. There is no need to inform senior management, as they approved the plan.

Question 116
The project team has completed the scope baseline and has started to break down each of the work packages into 
individual activities. What process should the team do next?

Develop Schedule   
Define Scope   
*Sequence Activity   
Create WBS   

Overall explanation:
    After the team has created the activity list in the process of define activity, the next process should be 
    sequencing the activities. This should be done before the team develops a schedule. 
    Creating WBS and defining scope will come before defining activities.



Question 117
A project manager on an agile project conducts planning at multiple points in time as the scope is refined and changed over 
the project lifecycle. This is known as?

Progressive planning
Agile project planning
*Rolling wave planning
Elaborate planning

Overall explanation:
    Rolling wave planning is when planning is done at multiple points in time as data becomes available.



Question 118
While constructing a roof for a large building, the project team has identified the risk of a snowstorm. 
Due to the region in the country and the time of the year, the team has decided to take no action or preparations for the snowstorm. 
What risk response strategy is the team using?   



Mitigation   
Enhance   
Avoid   
*Acceptance   

Overall explanation:
Acceptance is a risk response where you will take no action against the risk. All other choices involve taking some kind of action.


Question 119
While developing very complex software, the project manager met with some of the industry’s top subject matter experts to 
understand their perspectives on solving some of the problems in the software. What tool best describes these meetings?



Brainstorming   
Checklists   
Questionnaires and surveys   
Correct answer
*Focus groups   

Overall explanation:
    A focus group brings together subject matter experts to understand their perspectives and how they would go about solving problems. 
    A brainstorming session is done by a group of stakeholders to gather ideas. 
    A checklist can be created by an organization and then given to potential stakeholders, 
    usually to identify factors they may want on a project. 
    Questionnaires and surveys function almost the same as a checklist, which is used to gather stakeholders’ requirements.



Question 120
While conducting a risk assessment on a project, the project manager has identified a new regulatory risk.
If the project is not completed by July 31, the company will have to scrap the project. What best describes this?   

Project requirement   
Project work   
*Project constraint   
Project scope   

Overall explanation:
    There are 6 constraints on a project,: scope, cost, time, resources, risk, and quality. 
    This project is constrained by time. The other choices are project requirements, not constraints.



Question 121
While working on a project, the project manager asks the team to incorporate more of the user feedback  into the deliverables. 
In an agile project, where do the customers give the team feedback on the product?



*Sprint review   
Release feedback   
Sprint planning meeting   
Retrospective   

Overall explanation:
    During a sprint review, the customers review the partially finished product and give the team their feedback. 
    A sprint planning meeting is held to determine what requirements will be met in the next sprint. 
    A retrospective is conducted to capture the lessons learned from the sprint. Feedback release is a made-up term.


Question 122
The project manager is currently reviewing all of the meetings that took place over the past few weeks to ensure that it 
was done according to the communication management plan. What process is the project manager currently conducting?  



*Monitor Communications   
Plan Communications Management   
Manage Communications   
Conduct Communications   

Overall explanation:
Monitor Communications is where the project manager analyzes the project communications with the project management 
plan to ensure the communications are done according to the plan. Plan communication management is done 
to create the communication management plan. Manage Communications is where a project manager actually communicates with the 
stakeholders according to the plan. Conduct Communications is not an actual process.



Question 123
What is the main benefit for conducting the project using agile methodology versus traditional methodology?

Traditional delivers value at the beginning
*Agile delivers value incrementally
Agile project requires funding up front
Traditional delivers values all up front

Overall explanation:
    One of the main benefits of using agile over traditional project management, is that agile delivers value incrementally 
    compared to traditional where you get the value only at the end of the project.




Question 124
The project manager is conducting a presentation with a few of the senior stakeholders, and they are not 
happy with the progress of the project. The project manager has informed them that the delay is due to a 
contractor that was affected by a major flood a few weeks ago. What process does this best describe?   

Conduct communication   
Plan communication management   
Control communication   
*Manage communication   

Overall explanation:
Manage communication is done in the executing section of the project to update the stakeholders on the project’s progress. 
Plan communication management is used to create the communication management plan that describes how 
communication will take place on the project. Control and conduct communication are made-up processes.



Question 125
The project manager has just identified a new regulation that can possibly delay the project significantly. 
The project manager has added this new regulation to the risk register. What should the project manager do next with this risk?

Come up with a response to the delay in the project schedule   
Inform the project sponsor   
Request more funds to finish the project on time   
*Conduct a qualitative and quantitative assessment   

Overall explanation:
    When a risk has been added to the risk register, the project manager should conduct both a qualitative and quantitative assessment 
    before coming up with a risk response. If the response requires adding more money, the project manager 
    should initiate a change request requesting more funds for the project. 
    The project manager should assess the risk before informing the sponsor of the risk.


Question 126
While working on a project, the project team has encountered a problem that has halted the project work. 
The team is unable to come up with a solution and would like to have an outside company come in and 
finish the rest of the project. What should the project team do next?


*Create a request for proposal   
Create a request for quotation   
Rewrite the scope statement   
Conduct a bidder conference   

Overall explanation:
A request for proposal is used when there’s a problem on the project, and the solution is not easy to determine. 
This is generally a formal request made by project vendors to understand how they would rewrite the scope statement. 
Conducting a bidder conference will not come up with solutions to the problem with the project. 
A request for quotation is made to understand how a vendor develops satisfied requirements and how much it will cost.


Question 127
When selecting a project, the company looks at different factors that could impact their selection. 
What document best identifies the need for a project?   


*Business Case   
Project Management Plan   
Project Benefits Report   
Project Charter   

Overall explanation:
The business case is used to show the benefits of the project. The project charter is used to authorize the project. 
The project management plan outlines how to execute, monitor and control, and close the project. 
The project benefits report is a made-up term.



Question 128
The project manager, Peter, has been informed by the sponsor that the project needs to be completed 
2 weeks earlier than the scheduled time. Peter goes to the team and informs them that they will need 
to work overtime to complete the project sooner. What is Peter doing to shorten the schedule?   


Adding leads to activities   
Scope reduction   
Fast tracking   
*Crashing   

Overall explanation:
    Crashing adds resources to the project and will generally increase the cost. Since the team will be working overtime, 
    this will result in additional costs to the project. Fast tracking is when you run activities in parallel. 
    Adding leads to activities will overlap activities, which is not mentioned in the question. 
    The sponsor has not authorized a scope change on the project.



Question 129
While constructing a new office space, the sponsor has requested the project manager complete the project sooner. 
While analyzing the work, the project manager has noticed that some of the work can start before the predecessor work is done. 
What can the project manager do in this scenario to complete the project sooner?   


Add lag times between project activities   
Add slack times between project activities   
Add reserves to each project activity   
*Add lead times between project activities   

Overall explanation:
A lead is an overlap between project activities. This means that work will start before the predecessor work is done. 
Lag time will add a delay between activities. Slack is the amount of time you can delay an activity without delaying the project. 
Reserves are the additional time added to the activities to account for risk.




Question 130
The deliverables for the office relocation project were accepted by the company stakeholders, 
and all office staff were very happy with the work of the movers. 
The office manager requested the project be closed immediately due to year-end budgetary closeouts. 
The movers filed a claim for an additional $300 for moving a copier that was not part of the plan. 
What should the project manager do next?   

Keep the project open and pay the claim.   
Close the project immediately and inform the office manager.   
Close the project immediately and update the accounting department to pay the claim.   
*Keep the project open and inform claims administration.   

Overall explanation:
A project can only be closed once all claims have been settled. Claims should be sent to claims administration, 
where negotiation would be the preferred way to resolve them.



Question 131
A project manager working in a large multinational corporation has been assigned to upgrade the company’s website. 
This project will require inputs for many functional managers across the organization from different countries. 
Each functional manager would like one of their representatives to be present on the project team. What would be the best tool 
or technique for handling this scenario in a cost-effective way?   

Visiting each functional manager to collect their requirements in person   
Using collocation   
Requesting a meeting with all functional managers in one location   
*Using virtual teams   

Overall explanation:
    Virtual teams are used in the acquire resources process. Virtual teams are a cost-effective way to build multinational teams. 
    Collocation is when you bring everyone into a single space to accomplish work. 
    Although this may sound like a good solution, it is not cost-effective to have everyone fly to one location. 
    If you were to visit each functional manager, this would not solve the problem of having the functional managers’ 
    representatives on your project.



Question 132
The project manager has released the project team, completed the final lesson learned, and then completed the final report. 
The PMO has informed the project manager that it is not happy with this approach. What has the project manager done wrong?

Writing the final report after the lessons learned   
Releasing the team and then doing lessons learned
Nothing, these are the normal steps to closing a project     
Not informing the PMO about releasing the team   

Overall explanation:
Lessons learned should be done with the team and not just by the project manager. 
The steps in closing usually involve conducting the lesson learned, releasing the team, and then writing the final report.



Question 133
While managing a datacenter project, a few customers requested a feature be added to the project that will 
enhance the security system in the datacenter. The change was submitted to the change 
control board and was denied due to the high cost of the security system. 
A few months later another customer submitted the same change back to the project manager. 
What is the best step the project manager can take in this scenario?   



Inform the change control board   
Assess how this change impacts the project management plan   
Add the security system to the datacenter   
*Inform the customers the change cannot be done   

Overall explanation:
    The best thing to do in this scenario would be to inform the customer that the change cannot be added due to the 
    fact that it was already rejected by the change control board. You should not add changes to a project management 
    plan without it being first approved, and there is no need to inform the change control board again since 
    its members have already denied it.


Question 134
Project manager Mary was informed by the team that the constant conflicts in the project have 
slowed down the team so that they are now behind in the work. Mary is not sure what she did wrong while planning the project. 
She used a RACI chart to assign roles to each team member. 
She has assigned each activity to at least two people who will be held accountable for the work. What best explains the 
conflicts in the project?     


*Only one person should be held accountable for an activity when using a RACI chart.   
The team misread the RACI chart.   
Mary should have used more than just an RACI.
A RACI chart is not a tool that you can use to assign work.   

Overall explanation:
When using a RACI chart, only one person should be held accountable per task on the chart, which applies to using a kind of 
tool to assign resources. When more than one person is held accountable, the team members will blame each other for work that was 
done incorrectly or not at all.


Question 135
The sponsor would like a report about the resources that are being used on the project. 
He would like to see them broken down by different categories to make them easier to understand. 
What process will the project manager use to create this?     



*Estimate activity resources   
Sequence activities   
Define activities   
Develop schedule   

Overall explanation:
The process of estimate activity resources will output the resource breakdown structure, which is a 
hierarchal breakdown of resources by their categories and types. No other choice will output this project document.



Question 136
While working on a tablet redesign project for large technology company, the project manager received a 
change request from a key stakeholder. The change request would change the position of the power button 
from the top to the side of the tablet. After an assessment of the change, the change control board declined the 
change due to concerns about redesigning the motherboard. What should the project manager do next?  


Conduct perform integrated control   
*Update the change log   
Update the project management plan   
Update the lessons learned register   

Overall explanation:
Once a change is approved or denied, the project manager should update the change log to list the status of the change. 
If a change is approved, the project management should be updated.



Question 137
A project manager has completed the project status report. The report states the CPI is 1.1 and the SPI is 1.14. 
The report was given to the project sponsor, who has become very upset about the project’s progress and has requested an 
immediate meeting with the project manager. What should the project manager report in the meeting?   


Their has been many changes to the scope that has cause the project to be over budget   
*The project is progressing on schedule and budget   
The project is behind schedule and over budget due to scope creep   
Their has been many changes to the scope that has cause the project to be behind schedule   

Overall explanation:
A SPI and CPI of 1 and greater tell us that the project is actually under budget and ahead of schedule. 
All other choices are reporting wrong information.



Question 138
You are having an issue with the software crashing consistently on the project. What should you use to 
identify the cause of this issue and the effect it may have on your project?


*Ishikawa Diagram
Histogram   
Flowchart   
Continuous improvement   

Overall explanation:
Ishikawa diagrams, or cause-and-effect diagrams, are used to identify probable causes and sub-causes of a particular problem. 
A histogram is a bar chart and a flowchart is used to represent a process graphically. 
Continuous improvement is a theory that is used to continuously improve a product over its life cycle.


Question 139
While planning a major network upgrade project, one stakeholder has given a requirement to upgrade the switches. 
The project manager has determined that this would be too costly to be included in the project and has decided to exclude it. 
What process will the project manager use to document this exclusion?   

Collect requirements   
*Defi ne Scope                   
Create WBS   
Close project or phase   

Overall explanation:
The project scope statement would have a list of deliverables and include things such as acceptance criteria, 
exclusions, constraints, and assumptions. The scope statement is created in the process of define the scope. 
None of the other choices output the scope statement.




Question 140
While monitoring and controlling the project, the project manager and the team have consistently received broken equipment 
from a particular vendor. They have spoken with the vendor and implemented a new process that will 
ensure the equipment does not show up broken. This seems to have solved the problem. 
What is the next step the project manager should take?


Analyze the problem   
Investigate the problem   
Solve the problem   
*Check the solution   

Overall explanation:
When encountering any problem on a project, the project manager should first identify the problem, 
define the problem, investigate, analyze, solve, and then check the solution. In this situation, the 
problem has already been solved, so the next step would be to check the solution to ensure the problem has actually been solved.



Question 141
The project manager is currently estimating how many programmers will be needed to complete the financial software upgrade project. 
What document can the project manager use to determine who is available to work on the project?   


Lessons learned re
Project team calendar   
Availability calendar   
*Resource calendar   

Overall explanation:
The resource calendar shows the availability of resources, both physical and team. 
The lessons learned register is used to keep track of all new knowledge gained during the project. 
Project team calendar and availability calendar are made-up terms.



Question 142
What is the main difference between the product scope and the project scope?   


*The product scope describes the features and functionality of a product, whereas the project scope 
describes how to get the features and functionality from the product.   

The project manager plans product scope, and the project team plans the project scope.

There is no difference.   

The project scope describes the features and functionality of the product, whereas the product 
scope describes how to get the features and functionality from the product.   



Overall explanation:
The product scope describes the features and functionality of the product, whereas the project scope describes how to get 
the features and functionality from that product.



Question 143
Which of the following is not a principle of agile planning?

*Conduct most of the planning at the beginning
Conduct planning throughout the project
Engage the project team
Engage stakeholders

Overall explanation:
On the traditional project most of the planning is done on the beginning, while agile projects are planned 
throughout the project with the help of all stakeholders.



Question 144
You are currently working on a large building demolition project. There are many requirements for the potential vendors on 
the project, and you would like to ensure that they all receive the same information. What is the 
best tool or technique to ensure all vendors receive the same information about the project?   

Requirements documentation   
Requirements traceability Matrix   
Scope statement   
*Bidder Conference   

Overall explanation:
A bidder conference is held by inviting all the potential sellers and reviewing the requirements for the project with them. 
This will ensure that no vendor receives more or less information than the others. 
The scope statement, requirements traceability matrix, and requirements documentation are generally written 
before vendors are invited to learn about the project.



Question 145
The project team has completed the server deployment project. They have tested the server to ensure that it works according to 
the requirements given to them, and it seems to be functioning correctly. What process group has the team just completed?   

Planning   
Monitoring and controlling   
Closing   
*Executing   

Overall explanation:
    The outputs of all the executed processes combined, including directly executing the process and managing project work, 
    are the project deliverables. The output for planning would be the project management plan. 
    The output for closing would be the final product service or result transition and the final report. 
    The output for monitoring and controlling would be the accepted deliverables and the work performance reports.


Question 146
A project manager is having a very difficult time negotiating with a functional manager. 
The project manager would like to have Peter, the system administrator, work on the project full time, 
but the functional manager needs Peter full time to work on the servers throughout the day in case one goes down. 
After a few days of negotiating, the project manager has determined that he will have Peter from Monday to Wednesday, 
and the functional manager can have Peter on Thursday and Friday. Although this solution is not the most ideal scenario 
for the project manager and functional manager, it will have to work for now. What conflict resolution technique was used?



Smoothing   
*Compromising   
Problem solving   
Forcing   

Overall explanation:
    Compromising is when both sides in a conflict give up something to come up with a solution. 
    Smoothing is when the problem is pushed aside, and forcing is when one side completely wins and the other side completely loses. 
    Problem-solving is the best way, but that would require both sides to come up with a solution in which they both win.



Question 147
You have just been appointed the new project manager on a product upgrade project. 
One person in particular at the company feels like the project may cause them to lose their job. 
This person has expert knowledge of the current product and does not feel that it needs an upgrade. 
What would you consider this person on your project?   


*Stakeholder   
Employee   
Subject matter expert   
Team member

Overall explanation:
A stakeholder is someone who is positively or negatively impacted by a project. 
In this situation, the person is negatively impacted. Team members do the work on the project. 
Subject matter experts are generally team members, and employees work for a business.



Question 148
The project manager has calculated the SPI of the project to be .7 and the CPI to be .9. 
When reporting the progress of the project to the company stakeholders, 
what should the project manager say about the project to the stakeholders?   



*The project is delayed and over budget   
The project is progressing on schedule and budget   
A delay from a few vendors has delayed the project   
A few project expenses cost more than the budget of the project     

Overall explanation:
    A CPI and SPI of under 1 are bad. A CPI of under 1 represents a project that is over budget. 
    An SPI of under 1 represents a project that is behind schedule.



Question 149
A change request has been made by a senior stakeholder to add a new reporting function to the current financial 
software development project. The change was assessed by the project team and approved by the sponsor. 
What process should the project manager do next?   

Perform integrated change control   
Control quality   
*Direct and manage project work   
Validate scope   

Overall explanation:
    Once a change has been approved, it is time to execute the change, which is done in the executing process of 
    direct and manage project work. Control quality is done to check the deliverables to ensure they meet the quality requirements.
    Validate scope is done to get formal acceptance from the stakeholders. 
    Perform integrated change control is done to assess and approve a change request.



Question 150
When deciding which user stories can be done in the next iteration what should the project team consider?

Which story has the least risks
Which story is most valuable to the customer
*How many points the team completed in the past iterations
How large is the story

Overall explanation:
    When determining how much story work can get done in an iteration, the team should look at its velocity, 
    which is based on how many points they were able to get done in previous iterations.



Question 151
The project team has been working very hard over the last 4 months to program the financial application and has completed it. 
The project manager has informed the team that the quality control team will be inspecting it next. 
What process group best describes what the team has done so far?   

Closing   
Monitoring and controlling   
Planning   
*Executing   

Overall explanation:
In the executing process group, the team completes the deliverables. During the monitoring and controlling processes,
 the deliverables are accepted by the stakeholders. During the planning process, the project management plan is created. 
 During the closing process, the project or phase is brought to formal closure.



Question 152
While analyzing the budget of a project, the project manager notices that the current CPI of the project is .93 and the SPI is 1.1. 
What best describes what is taking place on this project?   


*Crashing   
Resource leveling   
Fast tracking   
Best tracking

Overall explanation:
Crashing involves adding more resources to a project to decrease the schedule. In this scenario, 
the project is 7% over budget but is 10% ahead of schedule. Fast tracking and resource leveling generally do not increase costs.
 Best tracking is a made-up term.


Question 153
The product owner would like to see how much work remains to be done on a project. 
What would be the best agile tool to display this?

Cumulative flow diagram
Velocity chart
Burndown chart
Burnup chart

Overall explanation:
    A burndown chart displays work that remains to be done on a project.



Question 154
While working on a large utility project for a major metropolitan area, the project manager has noticed that 
there is no change control board to approve changes for the project. What would be the best step for the project manager 
to take in this scenario?


*Establish a change control board for the project
Approve the changes himself
Approve the changes himself with the help of the project team
Ask the project sponsor to approve or deny the changes



Overall explanation:
    Since this is a large project that will affect a large population, it would be best to establish a change control board 
    for the project to have the changes reviewed and approved. On a very small project, the project 
    manager may ask the sponsor to approve or deny changes. The project manager’s main job is to document and assess changes to the project.




Question 155
While working on the workstation upgrade project, the project sponsor informs the team that they have 
to stop the project immediately and start working on a router upgrade project. The sponsor wants the router 
upgrade project to start in as little as 2 days. What should the project manager do next?

Get an authorized project charter for the router upgrade project.     
Write the charter for the new router upgrade project.   
Inform the sponsor that the router upgrade project plan will take more than 2 days.   
*Conduct the close project or phase process for the current project and write the final report.   

Overall explanation:
    When a project is terminated, the project manager will need to formally close the project. 
    This usually involves paying all the project bills, releasing the team, documenting the lessons learned and recording 
    what was completed in the project’s final report.



Question 156
Which of the following statements is true about projects:


Projects are temporary operations that are only done to improve a business   
*Projects are temporary endeavors to create a unique product, service, or results   
Projects are ongoing operations to improve business products   
Projects are ongoing operations that will create a unique product, service, or result   

Overall explanation:
    Per the PMBOK definition, a project is a temporary endeavor to create a unique product, service, or result. 
    Projects are not ongoing and are not only done to improve a business.


Question 157
The project team has completed a major deliverable on the game development project. 
The deliverable was given to the project manager. What action should the project manager take next?   


*Check the deliverable for quality requirements   
Ask the team to review the deliverable   
Get acceptance from the project sponsor   
Close the project   

Overall explanation:
    Once a deliverable is complete in the process of direct and manage project work, the next process would be to control quality; 
    the deliverable should be checked for quality requirements so it can be accepted by a customer or sponsor. 
    The project should not be closed until the deliverable has been accepted. 
    There is no need to have the project team review the deliverable since they have deemed it 
    completed and handed it to the project manager.



Question 158
The project manager is currently assigning costs to each individual activity on the project. 
A team member has informed the project manager that he should include additional cost just in case the software needs more testing. 
What best describes this additional cost?   


Testing reserve   
Project reserve   
Management reserve   
*Contingency reserve   

Overall explanation:
    Contingency reserve is what a project manager adds to the project cost baseline due to risk. 
    Management reserve is what the company management adds to the project budget due to risk. 
    Project and testing reserve are made-up terms .


Question 159
The datacenter redesign project is currently 30% complete. The project manager is not happy with the way processes are 
being followed by the team in ensuring that the network wiring will meet its quality requirements. 
What should the project manager do to improve the processes so as to meet the quality requirements with the network wiring?


*Manage quality   
Monitor and control project work   
Control scope   
Control quality   

Overall explanation:
    Manage quality is an executing process where you will improve processes by conducting audits and process analysis. 
    All other choices are monitoring and controlling processes that will be used to measure the work against the project management plan.



Question 160
While managing the project team the agile project manager is having a very difficult time understanding why team members are 
always frustrated when communicating with him. What critical soft skills does this project manager lack?



*Emotional intelligence
Active listening
Facilitation
Negotiation

Overall explanation:
Emotional intelligence is defined as the ability to identify, assess, and influence emotions of ourselves and others around us.



Question 161
The project team is currently having disagreements about the program and methods they would use to implement a 
few of the features in the product backlog. What role should the agile project manager take during this scenario?

Direct them to a resolution
Delegate tasks to find a resolution
*Coach them to a resolution
Remind them that the resolution can only be approved by the agile project manager

Overall explanation:
During the storming phase of the Tuckman’s letter, the agile project manager should be coaching the team to 
support constructive disagreement. Let the team find the best methods to resolve their issues.



Question 162
The product owner has added three new changes to the product backlog. The agile project manager has met with the team and
they have decided immediately how to implement these new changes, although these changes will be implemented 
until three iterations from now. The product owner informs the agile project manager that he is not happy about this. 
What should the agile project manager do?

Ask the product owner when he would like the changes to be implemented
*Tell the team they should not have committed to doing these changes until they were ready to implement them
Ask the team members to implement the change right away 
Inform the product owner of the potential risk of each change

Overall explanation:
One of the core principles of agile is to defer decisions. This means not making decisions about potential changes 
or features until the very last minute.


Question 163
The project manager and team have decided to hire a contractor to complete the installation of the servers 
for the system’s upgrade project. The terms of agreement have the contractor being paid on a monthly basis 
until the work is done. During what process will the contractor payments be made?   


Conduct procurement   
Manage procurement   
*Control procurement   
Plan procurement management   

Overall explanation:
Control procurement is when the agreement has already been signed, the contractor is completing the work, 
and the contractor should be paid according to the terms in the contract. Plan procurement management is done to select 
what needs to be procured and how to conduct the procurement. Conduct procurement is done to select a seller and award a contract. 
Manage procurement is not a PMBOK process.



Question 164
While working on an agile project, the sponsor would like to know how much work remains to be completed on the project. 
The project manager has scheduled a meeting with the sponsor for the next day. What tool would be best for the project manager 
to take to the meeting?

Project calendar   
Pareto chart     
Earned value charts   
*Burndown chart   

Overall explanation:
A burndown chart is used on agile projects to show work that remains to be completed. 
A project calendar is an input, not a tool. A Pareto chart is used in quality management to show what issues 
might be causing the most defects in a project. It displays the 80/20 rule. Earned value charts is a made-up term.


Question 165
When using different prioritization techniques what is the most important aspect that the agile project 
manager should communicate to the customers?

Make sure to include timing in the use of any prioritization technique
*Don’t worry too much about the specifics it’s more important to get the relative prioritization correct
Make sure to include cost in the use of any prioritization technique
Prioritization techniques are not needed on agile projects

Overall explanation:
    When using any prioritization technique, it is important the customer understands not to worry too 
    much about the specifics of the technique but rather to prioritize the features based on relative value.



Question 16
The project manager and the team have worked many hours to calculate the amount of time it will take to conduct each activity.
They would like to document some of the assumptions they made and the constraints they may face when the project is executed. 
What document will they use for this?   



*Basis of estimates   
Project schedule   
Cost estimates   
Duration estimates   

Overall explanation:
    The basis of estimates documents how the team arrived at their estimates regarding the project activities, 
    such as assumptions, constraints, range of estimates, and the confidence level of the estimates. 
    The duration and cost estimates will not have these components. 
    The project schedule will outline how long the project will take, which includes a network diagram,
    Gantt chart, and the milestone chart.



Question 167
While developing complex software for an organization, the project team creates a computer-generated model of 
what it will look like when it is done. This model is given to the customers for their feedback. What best describes this model?

Screenshots   
Data analysis   
Data representation   
*Prototypes   

Overall explanation:
A prototype is generally a mock-up or functional product that is given to the customers for feedback. 
Data representation and data analysis are tools used to analyze data and present them in various forms, 
such as graphs or charts. Screenshots are pictures taken from a screen of an application, not a model of how the application will work.



Question 168
Two team members were having a conflict over what programming method should be used on the new application. 
They have resolved the conflict. What would be their next step?   

Nothing, since the conflict has been resolved.   
*Implement the new method and verify that it solves the actual problem.   
Confirm that the sponsor agrees to the solution.   
Confirm that the project manager has agreed to the solutions.   

Overall explanation:
When a problem has been solved, the next step would be to confirm that the solution has actually solved the problem 
after it has been implemented.



Question 169
While measuring quality on a project, the project team decided to just measure the quality as pass/fail. 
The team has determined that this is the best method because the deliverables are mostly 
functions that will need to produce a correct result. What best describes this measurement? 




Statistical independence   
Statistical sampling   
*Attribute sampling   
Mutually exclusive   

Overall explanation:
    An attribute sample is a measurement that is usually pass/fail or good/bad. 
    Statistical sampling is a measurement that is not just pass/fail; it also has a middle ground, such as good, very good, 
    bad, or very bad. Statistical independence means that an outcome of two events cannot affect each other, and mutually 
    exclusive is a term that is used when two events cannot happen at the same time.



Question 170
The project manager and the project team were able to identify a number of risks that could affect the website upgrade project. 
They listed all of the risks on the risk register. They will now conduct a qualitative risk analysis to prioritize the risks. 
What will the team look at when prioritizing the risks?   


Probability only   
Impact only   
Source of risks and impact   
*Probability and impact   

Overall explanation:
    While conducting the qualitative risk analysis, the team will rank the risks based on their probability of
    occurrence and impact on the project.



Question 171
A company has completed building a new datacenter. The project has many changes that were submitted to the change control board.
 Most changes were approved, and some were not. Which of the following is not a purpose of the change control board?

Assess changes     
Manage the change control process   
Stop unnecessary changes   
*Deny changes whenever possible   

Overall explanation:
The change control board’s purpose is to manage changes to the project, 
which include assessing changes and stopping unnecessary changes. The change control board is not there to deny 
changes unless it has been assessed and deemed unnecessary in the project.


Question 172
The project team has identified a number of risks that could affect the project. 
One risk in particular is that the permit to build the foundation has shown up late. 
They have ranked this risk as the most important in the project since it will cause the largest delay. 
What process best describes this ranking?   

Identify risk   
Plan risk management   
Quantitative risk analysis   
*Qualitative risk analysis   

Overall explanation:
    A qualitative risk process is done to rank the risk that has been identified in the identify risk process. 
    Quantitative risk analysis is done to assign a value to the risk. Plan risk management is done to create the risk management plan, 
    which will document how to conduct all the risk management processes.


Question 173
The project manager has brought the project team together to explain what the project will be about and what their roles will be. 
The team members introduce themselves and learn about the different skill sets each of them brings to the project.
 What stage on Tuckman’s ladder best represents this?   

Performing   
*Forming   
Storming   
Norming   

Overall explanation:
    In the forming stage of Tuckman’s ladder, the team is formed and learns about each other. 
    In the norming phase, they stop storming and come to an agreement on how to conduct the work. 
    Performing is when the team actually builds the deliverables. Storming is when they disagree on how to conduct the work.


Question 174
Which technique should the agile team use to list the reasons for why a particular process was failing during iteration?

Check-in analysis
*Fishbone analysis
Short subjects
SMART goals

Overall explanation:
    A Fishbone analysis is done during the generate insight step in a retrospective to show the reasons for why something failed.



Question 175
While working on a large project, the project manager originally counted 12 stakeholders. 
A new requirement and six more stakeholders were added to the project. How many communication channels are on this project?   


*153   
306   
360   
160   

Overall explanation:
To get this answer correct, you will have to use the communications channels formula, which is N(N-1)/2. 
Since there are 18 stakeholders, the formula is 18(18-1)/2 = 153.



Question 176
A project manager is currently working with the team to complete the office redesign project when a sponsor tells
him to finish it 2 weeks sooner than planned. The project manager will need 4 new people to join the team to complete the 
work by the new deadline. What technique is best described in this scenario?   


Fast tracking   
Critical path method   
*Crashing   
Schedule variance   

Overall explanation:
Crashing is a scheduled compression method where you add more resources to complete the project sooner. 
Fast tracking is about running activities in parallel. The critical path method is about creating a network 
diagram and finding the critical path.



Question 177
While working on a complex software development project, the team is having a difficult time understanding a 
process used to code a particular report. They find the process to have many different paths and if/then scenarios. 
They have asked the project manager for a tool that can help them see the process on a large white board or on paper. 
What’s the best tool the project manager can recommend for the team to help visualize the process?   


*Flowchart   
Scatter diagram   
Fishbone diagram   
Histogram   

Overall explanation:
A flowchart is a tool that is used to help visually display a process. It can show decision points, loops, or paths. 
A scatter diagram is used to show a relation between two variables. 
A fishbone diagram is used to help identify potential causes of defects, and a histogram, such as a 
Pareto chart, is a bar chart that shows the frequency of things.



Question 178
While working with the system administrator, the project manager identifies many different types of resources 
required for the project to be completed successfully. 
The project manager classifies them as HR, material, equipment, and consumable resources. 
Where can the project manager best document these resources?   

Resource requirements   
*Resource breakdown structure   
Resource register   
Resource category matrix   

Overall explanation:
The resource breakdown structure is a breakdown of the resources by categories or types. 
The resource requirements describe all the resources needed to complete an activity. 
The resource register and resource category matrix are made-up terms.


Question 179
The project team has just assigned costs to all activities on a project. They will now use these costs to find the 
overall budget of the project. What tool can the project team use to complete this task?   

Expert judgment   
Parametric estimation   
*Cost aggregation   
Bottom-up estimation   

Overall explanation:
    If the activities have been assigned costs, then the process of estimate costs has been completed. 
    The next process would be to determine budget and use the cost aggregation tool to integrate all the activities into 
    the overall budget of the project. The tools of bottom-up estimation and parametric estimation are not used to determine a budget. 
    An expert may help in determining the costs, but not to aggregate them.



Question 180
    While planning a project, the project manager is given many requirements that the customers would like to add to the project. 
    Upon further investigation, the project manager decides that a few of the requirements will 
    not be feasible within the limited time and cost allocated to the project.
    What document would best list the requirements that will not be added to this project?   

Work breakdown structure   
Project Charter   
Requirements documentation   
*Project scope statement   

Overall explanation:
    The project scope statement includes a list of all the project deliverables as well as any requirements 
    that should be excluded from the scope. Work listed in the work breakdown structure will need to get done on the project. 
    The project charter has a high-level list of requirements. 
    The requirements documentation lists requirements provided by customers that they would like to be done.

















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































